scene direction: backstage in the sunnydale high school auditorium. emily is doing ballet stretching exercises. the camera shows her from the demon's point of view as he observes her from low to the floor.
scene direction: demon exhales
demon: i will be whole. i will be new.
scene direction: demon exhales
scene change: the camera moves through the backstage area. a number of students are practicing their acts. among them are lisa playing her tuba and marc rehearsing his magic act. the camera eventually reaches morgan and his dummy, sid. morgan rubs his temples a moment and then looks around. cut to the stage. cordelia is singing "the greatest love of all" off-key.
cordelia: learning to love yourself is the greatest love of all. i decided long ago...
scene change: cut to giles in the seats. he does *not* want to be there.
cordelia: ...never to walk in anyone's shadow.
scene direction: cordelia cut to cordelia
cordelia: if i fail, if i succeed, at least...
scene direction: giles interrupts
giles: thank you, cordelia. tha-that's going to be lovely.
cordelia: but i didn't do the part with the sparklers!
giles: um, w-we'll, um... save that for the dress rehearsal.
scene direction: giles anxious to get rid of her
giles: uh, lisa! please!
cordelia: uhhh!
scene direction: she puts the microphone back on its stand and leaves the stage as lisa sets up with her tuba. cut back to giles as lisa begins her solo. he rubs his eyes. buffy, willow and xander come down the center aisle.
scene direction: buffy draws a breath
buffy: if it isn't the great producer!
scene direction: they go into the seats and sit around giles.
xander: had to see this to believe it.
giles: oh. you three.
buffy: the school talent show. how ever did you finagle such a primo assignment?
giles: our new fãhrer, mr. snyder.
willow: i think they call 'em 'principals' now.
giles: mm. he thought it would behoove me to have more contact with the students. i did try to explain that my vocational choice of librarian was a deliberate attempt to
scene direction: giles draws a breath
giles: minimize said contact, but, uh, he would have none of it.
buffy: giles, unto every generation is born one who must run the annual talentless show. you cannot escape your destiny.
giles: if you had any shred of decency, you would have participated, or at least, um, helped.
buffy: nah! i think i'll take on your traditional role... and watch!
xander: and mock!
willow: and laugh!
scene direction: they all laugh.
buffy: o-kay. i think maybe we better leave our mr. giles to this business he calls a show.
scene direction: the three of them get up and start back up the aisle. principal snyder is waiting there for them.
buffy: principal snyder!
snyder: so. we think school events are stupid, and we think authority figures are to be made fun of.
buffy: no! no, we don't. w-unless you do.
snyder: and we think our afternoon classes are optional. all three of you left campus yesterday.
buffy: yeah, but we were fighting a demon...
snyder: fighting?
buffy: not fighting.
xander: no, we, uh, left to *avoid* fighting.
snyder: real anti-social types. you need to integrate into this school, people.
scene direction: snyder crosses his arms
snyder: i think i just found three eager new participants for the talent show.
buffy: what?
xander: no!
willow: please?
snyder: i've been watching you three. always getting into one scrape or another.
buffy: well, we're really, really sorry, but about the talent show, pleeease, you can't make us...
scene direction: snyder interrupts
snyder: my predecessor, mr. flutie, may have gone in for all that touchy-feely relating nonsense, but he was eaten. you're in *my* world now. and sunnydale has touched and felt for the last time.
scene direction: he starts past them down toward the stage.
xander: can i just mention, that detention is a time-honored form of punishment?
scene direction: buffy nods vigorously in agreement.
snyder: i know the three of you will come up with a wonderful act for the school to watch. and mock. and laugh. at.
scene direction: he continues down to the stage. xander can't believe this. he points up with both index fingers and sits down in a seat.
xander: no!
scene direction: buffy spaces out and moans. she goes back into giles' row, sits next to him and looks to him for sympathy. he has none to give, and tries to hide a smirk. the tuba solo is over. willow just stands there with a big frown on her face.
scene direction: giles to lisa
giles: thank you!
scene direction: the next act sets up. it's morgan with his dummy, sid.
buffy: ewww, dummy!
scene direction: xander sees a mime and jumps in his seat
xander: dyow! mime!
scene direction: willow sits behind buffy
willow: i think dummies are cute. you don't?
buffy: uuuhhh. they give me the wig. ever since i was little.
willow: what happened?
buffy: i saw a dummy. it gave me the wig. there really wasn't a story there.
scene direction: morgan on stage
morgan: hi. i'm morgan.
scene direction: morgan moves the dummy's head
morgan: and i'm sid!
scene direction: he is an awful ventriloquist, and giles winces. buffy raises her eyebrows and stares in disbelief.
scene direction: morgan as sid
morgan: hey morgan, would you like to tell some jokes?
scene direction: morgan as himself
morgan: would i!
scene direction: morgan as sid
morgan: as a matter of fact, it is! it's also a wood nose, and a wood mouth!
scene direction: willow can't believe his act either. morgan laughs nervously for sid.
scene direction: buffy looks at giles. he takes off his glasses.
scene direction: morgan as sid
morgan: i didn't sleep at all last night.
sid: alright, time out. let's stop this before someone gets hurt.
scene direction: sid to morgan
sid: kid, you are the worst. even i can see your lips move.
scene direction: buffy starts to giggle. giles looks up again and puts his glasses back on, intrigued now that he sees he may have at least one good act.
morgan: c'mon, sid. you're spoiling my act. i worked on these jokes for weeks.
sid: you call those jokes? my jockey shorts are made out of better material.
scene direction: a few students have gathered at the edge of the stage to watch morgan's act and laugh.
sid: and they're edible!
scene direction: more laughs from the students. buffy, willow and xander are into it now, too.
giles: there, you see? i'm sure you three can come up with something...
scene direction: equally exciting.
scene direction: sid smiles.
scene change: cut to the girls' locker room. emily is changing back into her regular clothes. she puts her ballet outfit and shoes into her locker and closes it. she hears a noise.
emily: is anybody there?
scene direction: she walks to the end of the row of lockers and peeks around the corner.
emily: hello?
scene direction: she walks around to the next row of lockers. no one's there. the demon exhales as it watches her from low to the floor.
emily: hello?
scene change: she continues down the row toward the showers. the demon comes up behind her. emily turns and screams. fade to black.
demon: i will be flesh!
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: the talent show tryouts.
marc: i reach into the hat, and out... comes...
scene direction: he lifts the hat and looks around frantically.
marc: has anybody seen a rabbit?
scene direction: he begins to search along the floor. the camera follows elliot as he juggles and walks past marc toward lisa, then it follows her for a few steps. the camera pulls back to xander, willow and buffy practicing a dramatic scene. xander poses with his right arm in the air to begin his line.
xander: i can't do this!
buffy: xander, come on.
xander: i, i can't! i have my pride! okay, i don't have a lot of my pride, but i have enough so that i can't do this!
scene direction: he goes over to the steps at the side of the stage to sit. willow follows him.
willow: a dramatic scene is the easiest way to get through the talent show, because it doesn't require an actual talent.
scene direction: willow sits above him
xander: but we have talent. we can do stuff. buffy, uh...
scene direction: buffy also sitting now
buffy: what am i gonna do? slay vampires on stage?
willow: maybe in a funny way!
xander: willow, you can do stuff. uh, the piano...
buffy: you play?
willow: a little.
buffy: well, that's cool. you can accompany us and we can *attempt* to sing.
willow: oh, i-in front of other people? then, no, i don't play...
xander: whatever happened to corporal punishment?
scene direction: sid whistles at the girls. xander, buffy and willow look at him and morgan.
sid: mm, mm, mm. look at the goodies!
scene direction: morgan looks embarrassed. willow gets up and goes over to him.
willow: morgan, you're really getting good! where did you come up with that voice?
morgan: it's kind of an imitation of my dad.
buffy: sounds real!
sid: it is real. i'm the one with the talent here. the kid's dead weight.
scene direction: sid to willow
sid: how about you and i do a little rehearsin' on our own, honey?
xander: uh, hey!
sid: you know what they say: once you go wood, nothin's as good!
buffy: okay, morgan. we get the joke. horny dummy, ha, ha, it's very funny, but you might wanna consider getting some new shtick. unless you want your prop ending up as a duraflame log.
scene direction: morgan and sid exchange a look.
scene change: cut to a view of the seats from above. principal snyder and giles come in through the doors at the back of the auditorium. the camera slowly pans down to them as they walk down the aisle.
snyder: kids today need discipline. that's an unpopular word these days, 'discipline'. i know principal flutie would have said, 'kids need understanding. kids are human beings.' that's the kind of woolly-headed, liberal thinking that leads to being eaten.
giles: i, i think perhaps it was a little more complex than, um...
snyder: this place has quite a reputation. suicide, missing persons, spontaneous cheerleader combustion... you can't put up with that. you've gotta keep an eye on the bad element.
scene direction: they reach the stage and stop. the camera has closed in on them. snyder nods up towards the stage.
snyder: like those three.
scene change: cut to buffy, willow and xander practicing their dramatic scene. cut to snyder.
snyder: kids. i don't like them. from now on you're gonna see a very different sunnydale high. tight ship, clean, orderly,
scene direction: snyder faces giles
snyder: and quiet.
scene change: cut to the girls' locker room. a girl screams loudly when she discovers emily's body.
scene change: cut to later as the paramedics prepare the body for transport. giles comes out of the locker room into the hall. he ducks under the yellow police tape and goes over to the team.
scene direction: giles clears his throat
giles: it was emily.
willow: emily. dancer emily?
xander: oh, man! i hate this school.
giles: uh, it must have happened just after, uh, dress rehearsals. there was a cross-country meet at melville. she, she, she never showed up for it.
buffy: vampire?
giles: um, i think not.
buffy: giles, share! what happened?
scene direction: giles exhales
giles: her heart was removed.
willow: yikes!
buffy: does that mean anything to you? besides
scene direction: buffy shudders
buffy: ooooooo?
giles: uh...
scene direction: giles exhales
giles: there are various demons which, which feed off human hearts, but...
scene direction: they look back and see the knife being put into an evidence bag.
buffy: but demons have claws. and teeth.
xander: they got no use for a big old knife.
giles: which more than likely makes our murderer...
buffy: human.
xander: did i mention that i *hate* this school?
willow: so emily was killed by a regular human person.
giles: the evidence certainly points that way.
buffy: no, wait. i-i'm not buying, you guys. remember the hellmouth? mystical activity is totally rife here. this to me says demon.
giles: i'd like to think you're right. a demon is a creature of evil, pure and very simple. a person driven to kill is, is, um, it's more complex.
willow: the creep factor is also heightened. it could be anyone. it could be me!
scene direction: willow gets looks from them all
willow: it's not, though.
giles: uh, demon or no, we have some investigating to do. i suggest we start with your... your talent show compatriots. one of them may have been the last to see her alive.
scene change: cut to the band room. buffy is interviewing lisa.
lisa: i didn't know her too well. there's that whole dancer/band rivalry, y'know?
buffy: i've heard about that.
lisa: but i did speak to her a little the day that... yesterday.
buffy: how did she seem?
scene change: cut to outside, where giles is interviewing marc as he shuffles a deck of cards.
marc: she was happy. i guess. she was psyched to be doing the show. she was a really good dancer. here, pick a card.
giles: uh, um...
scene direction: giles reaches for a card
marc: no, wai-wai-wai-wait. not that one. pick this one.
scene direction: giles takes the card
giles: do you remember the last time you saw her?
marc: she was talkin' to someone.
giles: who?
scene change: cut to a classroom. willow and elliot come in.
elliot: that smart guy. the one with the dummy. what's his name?
willow: morgan?
elliot: yeah, that's it. he was actin' kinda strange.
willow: strange how?
scene direction: cut outside to cheerleader practice. xander is talking to cordelia.
cordelia: it's just such a tragedy for me. emma was, like, my best friend.
xander: emily.
scene change: cut to the band room.
lisa: well, morgan's just strange. he's always rubbing his head a lot and moaning. especially the other day.
scene change: cut to outside.
marc: he seemed kinda paranoid... lookin' around at everyone...
scene change: cut to the classroom.
elliot: and i think i saw him arguing... with his dummy.
scene direction: cut outside.
cordelia: all i can think is, it coulda been me!
xander: we can dream.
scene change: cut to the auditorium. buffy comes in through the front side door. she looks around and walks over to the stage. she sees sid on a stool, facing the curtain.
scene direction: sid to morgan offstage
sid: right now you and me gotta be on the lookout. figure out who's gonna be next.
scene direction: morgan comes on stage
morgan: how are we supposed to...
scene direction: morgan sees buffy
morgan: oh, hi.
buffy: hello.
morgan: i was just working on throwing my voice.
scene direction: morgan walks upstage
buffy: uh, morgan, did you notice anything weird going on around here yesterday?
scene direction: morgan gathers sid up
morgan: weird? what d'you mean?
scene direction: morgan goes down the steps from the stage
buffy: with emily. did she say anything to you, was she arguing with anyone?
scene direction: morgan goes over to sid's case
morgan: no. she was dancing.
scene direction: morgan opens the case
morgan: sid and i were talking.
buffy: talking.
morgan: rehearsing.
buffy: so, you didn't notice anything weird at...
scene direction: he holds his hand to his forehead in pain and sits down.
morgan: ohhh!
buffy: morgan, are you okay?
sid: look, sweetheart! he answered your question. now leave him alone!
scene direction: morgan's pain has subsided, and he looks up at buffy.
buffy: okay, morgan, how 'bout talking to me yourself now?
sid: he said all he's gonna say.
scene direction: morgan looks nervously between buffy and sid. he gets up.
morgan: it's okay, sid. we're done.
scene direction: morgan puts sid in his case
buffy: i'm sorry. look, i didn't mean to make you mad.
morgan: no! i'm...
scene direction: morgan quietly
morgan: it's him!
scene direction: morgan indicates sid
morgan: he's...
scene direction: morgan closes the case
morgan: we have to go.
scene direction: morgan grabs the case and leaves
scene direction: buffy taken aback
buffy: cute couple.
scene change: cut to the library. willow, buffy and xander come in.
xander: okay, next time we split up someone else is on cordy detail. five more minutes with her and we woulda had another organ donor.
willow: i think i had a bit more luck. everyone i talked to seemed to point their fingers at the same person.
scene direction: they all come into giles' office.
buffy: morgan?
willow: morgan.
xander: we have a winner!
giles: i fear i was led to the same conclusion.
xander: well, what do we do? we don't slay him, right? we wanna bring him to justice.
willow: we could set up a complex sting operation where we get him to confess!
xander: uh, i should wear a wire!
buffy: whoa, hey, you guys, all we know is that morgan is a grade a large weirdo. that doesn't lead directly to murderer.
xander: guy talks to his puppet!
willow: and for his puppet.
buffy: well, yeah, but what about the whole 'it's a demon' theory?
giles: i'm looking into that, but, uh, my investigation is somewhat... hampered by our life in the theater.
buffy: uh, priority check, giles?
scene direction: buffy weighs the two with her hands
scene direction: talent show, murder.
xander: yeah, we can't do the talent show, it's unthinkable. i'm not able to think it!
giles: principal snyder is watching us all very closely. now, if he chooses, he can make all our lives extremely difficult. a slayer cannot afford that! we will find this murderer, but in the meantime... the show must go on.
buffy: this is so unfair.
giles: buffy, you, uh, watch morgan. check his locker, see if there's anything there.
willow: like a heart?
giles: or something.
buffy: alright.
willow: i'll pull up his locker number.
scene direction: willow goes to the pc
xander: can i still wear a wire?
scene change: cut to the hall after school. buffy quietly comes through the doors from the stairwell, looking around to see if anyone's there. she passes a door. it opens, but buffy doesn't see it, only hears the sound. cut to a shot of her through the door from low to the floor. she twists around to look behind her toward the sound, but doesn't realize it was the door that's now ajar. she goes back to looking for morgan's locker and finds it. she starts to work the combination.
buffy: okay... two to the left, three to the right...
scene direction: she looks in both directions again, and then slams her palm into the lock. when she takes her hand away there's a clean hole. she reaches in with her fingers and undoes the latch. she looks around in the locker, and is about to take sid's case out when principal snyder grabs her hand from behind, startling her.
buffy: principal snyder!
snyder: what are you doing?
buffy: uh, looking for something.
snyder: school hours are over. you, therefore, should be gone.
buffy: and i'm going any minute now.
scene direction: buffy laughs nervously
snyder: there are things i will not tolerate: students loitering on campus after school, horrible murders with hearts being removed. and also smoking.
buffy: well, i don't do any of those things. not... ever.
scene direction: snyder suspicious
snyder: there's something going on with you. i'll figure it out sooner or later.
scene direction: snyder buffy smiles
snyder: do you need something here?
buffy: oh!
scene direction: buffy looks into the locker
buffy: yeah! right! um, a friend wanted me to get something... out of his case!
scene direction: she pulls the case partially out of the locker, opens it and is surprised to find it empty. she quickly closes it and looks at snyder.
buffy: he must've taken it and just forgotten to tell me.
snyder: mm-hmm.
scene direction: morgan and sid see what's going on from behind the door.
snyder: get along home now. it's late.
scene direction: he turns and heads down the hall. buffy watches him go.
scene change: cut to the stage. sid is in the chair. morgan paces.
morgan: no, i can't do it!
sid: it's the only way.
morgan: i don't want...
sid: she's the one.
morgan: but...
sid: you saw what she did, how strong she is.
morgan: i know, but...
sid: she's the last! just this one more, and i'll be free.
morgan: i won't.
sid: i will!
scene change: cut to buffy's room at home. her mom knocks on the door and comes in.
joyce: hi, hon. how's it, uh, going with the talent show?
buffy: it'll be over soon.
scene direction: joyce lets out a laugh
joyce: it can't be that bad! i, for one, am looking forward to seeing your act.
buffy: seeing? i-in the sense of actually attending?
joyce: of course!
buffy: uh-uh! no, mom, y-y-you can't! and, i mean, if i know you're out there watching, i'll freeze up, stage fright.
joyce: but i wanna support what you're doing!
buffy: look, mom, if you really love me, and wanna show your support, you'll stay away. far away.
joyce: honey, is there, uh... is there something bothering you? i-i mean, besides your fabulous debut.
buffy: nothing. there's just a lot going on right now.
joyce: well. get some sleep. you'll feel better in the morning.
buffy: good plan.
scene direction: joyce leaves the room and closes the door behind her. buffy gets into bed. the camera follows her hand as she reaches over to turn off her lamp in front of the window. when it goes out sid is there looking in.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: buffy's room. she's sleeping. she wakes to the sound of quick, light footsteps and sits up. more footsteps. she sees something go under her bed and leans over the edge to look underneath. nothing. she comes back up and sees sid there, screams, and knocks him off of the bed. sid runs away. buffy quickly gets out of bed as her mother rushes into the room and turns on the light.
joyce: honey, what is it?
scene direction: buffy comes over to her mom, frightened
buffy: in the bed, in the covers there's something!
joyce: where?
scene direction: they go to the bed to investigate.
buffy: there's something there.
scene direction: joyce grabs the covers and goes through them.
joyce: well, well, there, there's nothing there now. are, are you sure you didn't have a nightmare?
buffy: no! there's some... there is...
scene direction: buffy exhales and puts her hands on her head
buffy: yeah... you're probably right.
scene direction: buffy exhales and drops her hands
buffy: i'm sorry i got you up.
joyce: don't worry about it. i was dreaming about bills.
scene direction: joyce kisses buffy's forehead
joyce: sweetheart, you shouldn't
scene direction: joyce points
joyce: go to sleep with the window open.
scene direction: she touches her daughter's cheek, then leaves the room. buffy looks at her window.
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: i didn't.
scene change: cut to sunnydale high school.
marc: and my lovely assistant steps into the box...
scene change: cut to the stage in the auditorium. marc's assistant steps into the box.
scene direction: he closes the door and turns it around.
marc: and... behold!
scene direction: he opens the box, but his assistant is still there.
marc: you were supposed to leave!
scene direction: xander and willow are in the seats watching and laughing. marc closes the door to the box and butts his head against it. giles comes out from backstage with cordelia close behind.
cordelia: i don't understand why i... why i have to follow brett and his stupid band.
giles: because we have to clear their equipment before the finale. i told you.
cordelia: but the mood! it'll be all wrong!
scene direction: cordelia gets in front of him and stops him
cordelia: my song is about dignity and human feelings and personal... hygiene or something. anyway, it's sappy, and no one is gonna be feeling sappy after all that rock and roll.
scene direction: giles doesn't want to hear it. he gives cordelia a look like something's wrong.
cordelia: uhhh, what?
giles: oh! i'm sorry. um, your hair, uh...
cordelia: there's something wrong with my hair?
scene direction: cordelia pulls it behind her ears
scene direction: giles remains silent, but continues to stare.
cordelia: ohmigod!
scene direction: cordelia quickly leaves
scene direction: giles to himself
giles: xander was right. it worked like a charm.
scene direction: he sees buffy come down the aisle and goes over to her.
giles: hello. you look a bit worse for, uh...
scene direction: buffy heads into the seats to willow and xander. giles follows.
giles: what exactly are you the worse for?
buffy: where's morgan?
scene direction: buffy sits
giles: uh, i, i... haven't seen him.
xander: did he do something to you?
buffy: no, it was his... sid, the dummy.
scene direction: she suddenly has giles' full attention.
buffy: okay, everyone look at me like i'm in a bunny suit, 'cause that's how stupid i feel saying this... i think sid was in my room last night.
willow: with morgan?
buffy: no. he was alone. and alive.
xander: did you see him?
buffy: well, i saw something. i-it ran across my floor, under my bed and then it attacked me.
giles: attacked you? how?
buffy: it was like it pounced on my face.
xander: like a cat.
buffy: yeah, exactly! but when i turned the lights on it was already gone. i-i think it went out my window.
xander: like a cat.
buffy: yeah! no! it was sid, the dummy.
giles: or possibly the nightmare of somebody who had... dummies on her mind.
willow: you did say they creep you out.
buffy: excuse me? can i have a *little* support here, please? i'm not just some crazy person, i'm the slayer.
xander: the dummy slayer?
scene direction: xander gets a look from buffy
xander: there's nothing funny about that.
willow: well, on the side of the 'morgan's just crazy' theory there is,
scene direction: willow sees morgan go by carrying sid
willow: well, morgan.
scene direction: morgan opens sid's case.
buffy: i'd like to see morgan without his better half for a few minutes. bet he could tell me something.
scene direction: morgan sits down with sid on his lap.
giles: oh, uh, i-if it's any consolation, i... i may have found a possible demon culprit.
scene direction: giles holds up a book
giles: the-there's a reference in here to a brotherhood of seven demons who take, uh, the form of young humans. every seven years these demons need human organs, a-a-a brain and a heart, to maintain their humanity. otherwise they, they, they revert back to their original form, which is, uh, uh, slightly less appealing.
scene direction: he hands xander the book open to a sketch of one of the demons.
willow: so morgan could still be the guy, only demon morgan instead of crazy morgan.
scene direction: morgan fusses with sid's shoes.
giles: it's said that these demons are, are, are preternaturally strong, and, and, and... morgan is, is... well, he seems to be getting weaker every day.
scene direction: morgan puts his hand on his head. buffy observes him.
scene change: cut to history class. mrs. jackson lectures as she walks around the room.
mrs. jackson: it was as a result of this that president monroe put forth the eponymous, meaning named after one's self, monroe doctrine, which in one sense established the u.s. as a local peacekeeper.
scene direction: she walks behind buffy, who is intently watching sid. sid turns his head back to look at her and lowers his brows. buffy is creeped out and looks down at her desk. a moment later she looks back up at him. sid just stares back. cordelia notices and leans over to comment.
cordelia: looks like someone digs you. that's adorable. you and the dummy could tour in the freak show!
scene direction: she smiles smugly as she leans back into her chair. buffy says nothing.
scene direction: she just looks back at sid, then down at her desk again.
mrs. jackson: okay, who can tell me how spain responded to this policy?
scene direction: sid is whispering to morgan. mrs. jackson notices.
mrs. jackson: morgan? morgan?
scene direction: morgan looks at sid, then up
morgan: what?
sid: morgan has other things on his mind.
scene direction: the students laugh. mrs. jackson approaches morgan.
mrs. jackson: give me your puppet.
morgan: i'll put him away.
scene direction: mrs. jackson takes sid
mrs. jackson: you'll get it back after school.
scene direction: she opens a cupboard, puts sid in and closes it.
mrs. jackson: okay, then. in the first part of the nineteenth century...
scene direction: sid from inside the cupboard
sid: i'm still watchin' you.
scene direction: buffy looks at the cupboard.
mrs. jackson: morgan, that is enough!
scene direction: xander and buffy look at morgan. he looks back at buffy, then at mrs. jackson.
scene change: cut to after school. morgan comes back into the classroom to retrieve sid.
morgan: mrs. jackson.
mrs. jackson: morgan.
morgan: you said you'd give me...
mrs. jackson: oh, of course.
scene direction: she gets up and goes over to the cupboard. morgan follows her expectantly. before she gets sid out she stops and faces morgan.
mrs. jackson: y'know, i wanted to ask you, is everything okay? at home, here at school?
morgan: yeah, it's great.
mrs. jackson: i feel like you've become... a little detached.
morgan: mm!
scene direction: morgan rubs his head in pain
mrs. jackson: you're one of the brightest kids i've seen in a long time, but lately it seems like you're not all there.
scene direction: morgan has both his hands on his head now, rubbing.
mrs. jackson: try not to let other things get in the way.
scene direction: morgan takes his hands down
morgan: okay! can i get sid now?
mrs. jackson: sure.
scene direction: she goes over to the cupboard and opens it, but sid is gone. she turns back to morgan.
mrs. jackson: it's gone!
morgan: gone? whadaya mean, gone? where could he have gone?
mrs. jackson: i put it right here.
morgan: he knew to wait for me. he knew i'd be back.
mrs. jackson: what do you mean 'he'?
morgan: what did you do with him? where is he?
scene change: cut to the library. xander has sid and is playing with him. buffy, willow and giles come in. willow and giles have their arms full of costumes. buffy sees xander holding sid.
buffy: where did you get that?
xander: oh, i, uh, took it out of mrs. jackson's cupboard. i thought you said you wanted to be able to speak to morgan alone, and uh... well, morgan's alone, and, uh... sid's with me.
scene direction: buffy stares at sid uncomfortably.
scene direction: xander manipulating sid
xander: hi, buffy! hi, willow! would you like to hear some off-color jokes?
buffy: i really don't think you should be doing that.
xander: what? c'mon...
scene direction: xander as sid
xander: i'm not real!
scene direction: buffy wigged
buffy: xander, quit it!
scene direction: she turns and walks a few steps away. she stops and looks back when she hears xander pounding sid's head into the table.
xander: he's... not... real!
scene direction: xander picks sid back up
xander: i think our demonstration proves that, uh, sid
scene direction: xander knocks on sid's head several times
xander: is wood. now, why don't you go and find morgan and prove he's...
scene direction: whatever he is?
giles: i imagine he's looking for his puppet.
buffy: i'll go find morgan.
scene direction: buffy starts to leave, but stops and gives xander a look
buffy: you watch the dummy.
scene direction: xander as sid
xander: bye-bye, now. i'm completely inanimate.
scene direction: buffy gives xander another look and goes out the door.
scene direction: xander as sid
xander: redrum! redruuum!
willow: what do we do with him?
xander: eh, i'll keep him company.
giles: willow, we have some hunting of our own to do.
willow: once again i'm banished to the demon section of the card catalog.
scene direction: xander looks at sid and goes over to the table with him. giles and willow go up into the stacks.
giles: you concentrate on re-animation theory. i'll peck about in organ harvesting. unless, of course, you prefer...
willow: that's okay, you can have the organs.
scene direction: xander puts sid in the chair at the end of the table.
xander: so, i guess it's just... you and me, huh?
scene direction: xander turns sid's head away and pats him
xander: that looks more comfortable.
scene direction: he leaves sid there, and the camera closes in on him.
buffy: morgan?
scene change: cut to the auditorium. buffy walks along the front and then up the stairs to the stage.
buffy: morgan?
scene direction: cut backstage. buffy draws a curtain aside, but no one's there. she takes the steps down to the makeup area and tries a door. it's locked.
scene direction: she hears another door close and turns toward the sound. a gust blows through another curtain. slowly she walks toward it. she quickly turns her head when she senses something behind her, and sees principal snyder at the top of the steps to the stage.
buffy: principal snyder!
snyder: looking for something?
buffy: have you seen morgan shay?
scene direction: snyder comes down the steps
snyder: you know, with everything that's been going on recently, i'm not sure how safe it is for a girl like yourself to be here... alone.
buffy: well, i was just leaving. and i know how to take care of myself.
scene direction: they stare at each other a moment.
snyder: alright, then.
scene direction: he goes back up the stairs and leaves.
scene change: cut to the library. xander looks over at sid in his chair, then turns back to his homework. cut to the stacks.
scene direction: willow to giles
willow: look what i found in the section on toys and magic
scene direction: willow reads
willow: 'on rare occasions inanimate objects of human quality, such as dolls and mannequins, already mystically possessed of consciousness, have acted upon their desire to become human by harvesting organs.' giles: emily's heart.
willow: morgan's dummy.
giles: mm.
scene change: cut to xander. he gets up to get a reference book. when he gets back to the table sid is gone, but xander doesn't notice. he slams the book on the table, sits down again and begins to read. after a moment he glances at sid's chair and jumps up frightened when he sees it empty.
xander: whoa!
scene direction: he climbs onto the table. giles and willow come running out of the stacks.
giles: what is it?
xander: he's gone!
scene direction: xander indicates the chair
xander: sid's gone!
giles: what? oh!
willow: uhhh!
scene direction: they're both frightened and look around themselves.
scene direction: cut backstage. buffy continues to look around. she hears some creaking.
buffy: morgan?
scene direction: she backtracks a bit and goes toward the noise. she pushes some clothes on a rack aside, but sees nothing. she continues and eventually stumbles on something. she looks down and sees morgan's body lying there.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: morgan!
scene direction: buffy slowly backs away
buffy: demon's got himself a brain.
scene direction: she keeps backing through a bead curtain and hears a snapping noise above. she looks up and sees a wrought iron chandelier falling on her.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: backstage. buffy is unconscious under the chandelier. she wakes and moans. her vision is a bit blurred. she hears quick little footsteps and immediately becomes alert. she sees sid run across the catwalk above her. she tries to lift the chandelier off of herself, but it's very heavy. sid has come down now, and buffy sees him in the shadows.
buffy: who's ever out there, i'm gonna hurt you! badly! if you'll just gimme a minute...
scene direction: she tries lifting again, but to no avail. she looks back to where she saw sid and sees his knife poised above her. she turns her head just in time to avoid being stabbed in the face. sid lifts the knife and tries again, but misses. buffy flails out with her left arm and knocks him away. she tries lifting again, and this time she shifts the chandelier enough to get out from underneath it. sid attacks her from behind as she slides out, but she knocks him away and into a wall. his knife goes sliding across the floor. buffy gets out and jumps over on top of sid, pinning him against the wall with her arm.
sid: you win. now you can take your heart and your brain and move on.
buffy: i'm sure they would have made great trophies for your case.
sid: that woulda been justice.
buffy: yeah, except for one thing: you lost, and now you'll never be human.
sid: yeah, well, neither will you.
scene direction: they are both confused.
buffy and sid: what?
scene change: cut to the library. giles and xander stare at sid in wide-eyed and open- mouthed amazement. willow and buffy just stare and listen.
sid: this is what i do. i hunt demons. yeah, you wouldn't know it to look at me. let's just say there was me, there was a really mean demon, there was a curse, and the next thing i know i'm not me anymore. i'm sitting on some guy's knee, with his hand up my shirt.
willow: and ever since then you've been a living dummy?
sid: the kid here was right all along. i shoulda picked you to team up with. but i didn't because...
buffy: because you thought *i* was the demon.
sid: who can blame me for thinking? look at you! you're strong, athletic, limber...
scene direction: sid goes off into his own world
sid: nubile...
scene direction: sid shakes his head
sid: i'm back! in any case, now that this demon's got the heart and brain, he gets to keep the human form he's in for another seven years.
scene direction: the tea kettle is whistling. giles gets up to tend to it.
giles: i must say, it's a welcome change to have someone else explain all these things.
sid: there were seven of these guys. i've killed six. if i can get the last one, the curse will be lifted and i'll be free. i'm sure it's someone in that stupid talent show.
buffy: yeah, but now that demon has what he wants. he'll be moving on.
sid: so, once we know who's missing from the show...
buffy: we'll know who our demon is!
scene direction: giles remembering
giles: the show!
buffy: what?
giles: it's gonna start! i'm supposed to be there!
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: okay, um, start pulling everyone's addresses in the talent show. i-if they're not there, maybe we can catch them at home.
scene direction: sid to giles
sid: and you, get 'em all on stage, form the power circle. then we can see who's a no-show.
giles: um, uh, the what?
sid: the power circle. you get everyone together, you get 'em, you know, revved up.
giles: right.
scene direction: giles still confused, but goes
sid: how'd *he* ever get that gig?
scene direction: cut backstage.
giles: fifteen minutes to curtain, everyone! uh, fifteen minutes!
scene direction: he turns to go back out. cordelia chases him down.
cordelia: i, i can't go out there. all those people staring at me and judging me like i'm some kind of... buffy! what if i mess up?
giles: cordelia, there, uh, there-there's, uh, uh, an adage, uh, that, uh, if you're feeling nervous then, uh, you should imagine the entire audience are in their underwear.
cordelia: eww! even mrs. franklin? uhhh!
giles: perhaps not.
cordelia: yeah.
scene direction: giles to everyone
giles: um, alright, um, we'll assemble on the stage in five minutes for the, um, uh, power thing.
scene change: cut to the catwalk. sid and buffy are sitting and waiting to see who's missing from the circle.
sid: so, what's your deal, kid? i don't figure you for a demon hunter.
buffy: i'm a vampire slayer.
scene direction: sid surprised
sid: you?! you're the slayer?
scene direction: sid buffy nods
sid: damn! i knew a slayer in the 30's. korean chick. very hot. we're talking *muscle* tone. man, we had some times.
scene direction: sid gets a look from buffy
sid: hey, that was pre- dummy, alright? now, i was a guy!
buffy: so, you kill the demon and the curse is lifted, right?
sid: that's the drill.
buffy: you don't actually turn into a prince, do you? i-i mean, your body...
sid: is dust and bones. when i say free...
buffy: you mean dead.
sid: don't get sniffly on me, sis. i've lived a lot longer than most demon hunters. or slayers, for that matter.
scene direction: buffy looks down, depressed about her lot in life.
scene direction: sid puts his hand on her knee
sid: of course, if you want to snuggle up and comfort me...
scene direction: buffy takes his hand off of her knee
buffy: so, that horny dummy thing really *isn't* an act, is it?
sid: nope!
buffy: yuk!
scene direction: sid and buffy look down onto the stage.
giles: i-is everybody here?
scene direction: the talent gathers on the stage.
sid: okay, here comes our line-up.
giles: quickly, everyone! uh... um, power circle.
scene direction: the students arrange themselves in a circle and hold hands. sid and buffy scan the group for any missing members. giles looks around as well. the camera follows his gaze.
giles: well, that's that, then. um, everybody, uh, get ready!
scene direction: some of the students don't get it, but the circle breaks up quickly as they scramble to get ready. giles scratches his head, confused. buffy bends down and slips underneath the catwalk railing.
scene direction: buffy to sid
buffy: hold on.
scene direction: she drops to the stage below. sid watches her fall. she lands squarely on her feet and goes over to giles.
giles: no one's missing.
buffy: so the demon isn't in the show.
giles: it seems not. uh, tell the others. look, it's nearly curtain. i must get the show rolling.
buffy: right.
giles: right.
scene direction: she looks for sid up on the catwalk, but he's gone.
buffy: sid?
scene change: cut to principal snyder nosing around backstage. giles sees him, and snyder faces him. giles isn't sure why he's there. snyder puts his fist into his palm and walks away. giles follows him.
scene change: cut to buffy, still looking for sid.
buffy: sid?
scene direction: she stops next to a workbench. something drips onto her arm from above.
scene direction: she shakes it off and looks up. she reaches up to a shelf to see what's dripping, and morgan's brain falls down and into her hands. she lets out a startled yelp and drops the brain. it jiggles when it hits the floor.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the library. willow is at the pc. buffy walks up to her staring at her hands.
buffy: i'm never gonna stop washing my hands.
xander: so, the dummy tells us that he's a demon hunter. and we're, like, fine, la la la la. he takes off, and now there's a brain. does anybody else feel like they've been keyser soze'd?
buffy: sid's on the level, i'm sure of it. but why would the demon have rejected the brain? i-i mean, i thought morgan was the smartest kid in school.
willow: he was, look at his grades: all a's. he was even taking college classes. wait a second.
buffy: what?
willow: all these sick days.
xander: he was off for, like, half the year!
buffy: check the school nurse's file.
scene direction: willow types
willow: look at this! 'in case of emergency, contact dr. dale leggett, california institute of neurosurgery, cancer ward.' xander: brain cancer?
willow: that's why he had all the headaches.
buffy: this means that whatever's out there still needs a healthy, intelligent brain.
xander: in other words, i'm safe!
scene direction: xander smiles
buffy: and it's gonna be looking for the smartest person around.
scene direction: she and xander look at willow. she looks back and forth between them.
willow: what?
scene direction: cut backstage. giles is helping marc set up, and has a pair of weights in his hands.
giles: yes, if you, you calibrated the units of weight then you could calculate the, uh, specific maximum velocity achieved before the point of impact.
marc: gee, mr. giles, you're really... smart! could you do me a favor?
scene change: cut to the library.
willow: what could a demon possibly want from me?
xander: what's the square root of 841?
willow: 29. oh, yeah.
buffy: don't worry, willow. as long as you're with us there's absolutely no way that demon is gonna get what he wants.
scene direction: cut backstage. marc tests his guillotine on a honeydew melon. giles picks up a half melon.
giles: oh, my!
marc: pretty cool, huh?
giles: are you sure there's no one else who could help you out?
marc: my assistant got sick. you won't have to say anything. i'll, i'll show you. lie down.
scene direction: giles inspects the guillotine
giles: uh, uh, how, how exactly does it work?
scene direction: marc pulls the blade back up by its rope and ties it down.
marc: a good magician never tells his secrets.
scene direction: he sees his hand and arm begin to revert to demon form, and shakes his sleeve to get it to cover up better.
marc: c'mon. we haven't got much time.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy is pacing nervously.
buffy: this is ridiculous. we can't just sit here and wait for him to come to us. we have to figure out who we're dealing with.
xander: i still vote dummy.
buffy: no. okay, so we ruled out all the people in the talent show...
willow: that's because they were all there. but that's before we found the brain.
buffy: right. so it probably *is* one of them. and, and giles doesn't know! he's with them all right now!
xander: uch! giles can handle himself. i mean, he *is* really...
scene direction: xander clicks in his mind
xander: smart!
scene change: cut to the hall outside the library. buffy slams the door open and runs out and down the hall.
buffy: giles!
scene direction: xander and willow are hot on her trail.
scene direction: cut backstage. giles is strapped down to the guillotine bench.
giles: sh-sh-shouldn't it be aimed at my neck?
marc: no. no, this way your scalp gets sliced off and your brains just... come pouring out.
scene direction: he slides the head restraint down onto giles' forehead. he reaches over and locks it down with a padlock.
giles: what exactly is the trick?
marc: trick?
scene direction: marc pulls the chest restraint tighter
giles: marc?
scene direction: marc goes over to the block where the rope holding the guillotine blade is tied down. he grabs his hatchet and takes a swing at the rope. giles is terrified. marc takes another swing. the rope is half cut now.
giles: m-marc?
scene direction: a third swing, and the rope is almost cut through. the blade slips a bit. giles looks up at it in terror. another swing, and the rope hangs by a thread. marc raises the hatchet for the final cut. buffy lunges at him and tackles him to the floor. she leg sweeps marc, kicking his legs out from under him as he tries to get up. she stands up and adopts a fighting stance. as marc tries to get up again, she throws an inverted crescent kick to his face, and he goes down again. marc growls as he starts to get up, and buffy sees that the skin on his face is beginning to turn back into its demon state.
buffy: ewww!
scene direction: marc takes advantage of her distraction and jumps up and punches her, then follows up with a backhand fist to her face. she spins around and falls to the floor. the rope stretches and snaps, and the blade begins to fall. giles yells out and clamps his eyes shut. at the last instant xander grabs the rope from midair and stops the blade. giles hears it stop and opens his eyes. he sees it go back up as xander pulls on the rope. buffy gets up, but is punched by the demon and falls again. willow goes to giles and begins to undo the restraints.
willow: where are the keys?
giles: marc's got it!
xander: willow!
scene direction: he kicks the hatchet over to her. she picks it up and begins to hack at the lock.
giles: hurry!
scene direction: buffy gets up again and runs over to marc. she grabs him and falls backward, pulling him down with her and flipping him over onto his back.
scene direction: she flips up to her feet and turns to face him in a front stance. when he gets up she punches him in the face and kicks him in the stomach with a hopping front snap kick. he staggers backward and stumbles into his disappearing-act box, and the door closes on him. willow keeps hacking at the lock on the guillotine.
buffy: how do you lock this thing?
scene direction: that wouldn't have made any difference because marc just punches through the box and reaches for her. she quickly backs away as he kicks and shoves his way out of the box. he has completely reverted to his demon form now. he comes at her, grabs her by the neck, and lifts her from the floor.
scene direction: giles yells
giles: what's happening?
scene direction: willow keeps hacking. the demon slams buffy up against a wall with his hand around her throat. he pulls her away and slams her into the wall again. xander can only watch as he holds on to the rope. willow gets the lock to break and quickly pulls it off. she and giles push the head restraint up, and he gets out as fast as he can. he reaches down to undo the restraint at his feet. sid finally shows up, jumps onto the demon's back and begins stabbing with his knife.
sid: i found you!
scene direction: the demon ignores sid and continues slamming buffy into the wall. giles gets himself loose. sid has forced the demon to let go of buffy and has jumped off. she hits the demon in the face with an open hand punch followed by a backhand punch. giles gets off of the bench as buffy does a full spinning side kick to the demon's gut, making him stagger back onto the bench and land with his neck in the guillotine.
scene direction: buffy to xander
buffy: let go!
scene direction: xander lets go, and the blade falls, chopping off the demon's head. its body slumps lifeless on the bench. willow cringes at the sight. they all stare at what's left of the demon.
giles: uh... i must say, all of you... your t-timing is impeccable.
sid: and now for the big finish.
scene direction: he has positioned himself over the demon's chest with his knife.
buffy: what are you doing?
sid: it's not enough. he'll come back. you have to get the heart. then all of this'll be over.
scene direction: she holds out her hand for the knife.
buffy: let me.
sid: i got it. thanks.
scene direction: he wields back with the knife and plunges it into the demon's heart. he pulls back to do it again, but his aim was true the first time, and he just slumps over onto the demon with the knife still in his hands, now a lifeless puppet. buffy looks at sid sadly and lets out a deep breath.
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses. buffy gently lifts sid from the demon and holds him in her arms. she starts to walk off-stage.
