scene direction: sunnydale high school at night. a man in a suit with a briefcase is walking past a school building at a brisk, determined pace. he stops for a moment and looks around. behind him to his left a door opens, and a school custodian comes out with a trashcan.
custodian: can i help you?
philip: rupert giles! i need to see him!
custodian: mr. giles, uh, he's our librarian. next building over, first door on your left.
scene direction: philip rushes off without a word of thanks.
scene direction: custodian sarcastically
custodian: you're welcome.
scene direction: custodian dumps the trash
scene direction: philip continues at his brisk pace and finds the outside library door.
scene direction: he continues toward it, but stops in his tracks when he hears a twig being crushed behind him and turns to look. he hears a moan, but sees nothing and checks the other way again. behind him he hears breathing and turns back again, and sees a woman in the shadows.
philip: oh, god!
scene direction: slowly she walks into the light. she is dead and rotting. her eyes flash yellow briefly.
philip: diedre?
diedre: philip.
scene direction: philip quickly backs up and doesn't see the curb behind him. he trips over it and falls, dropping his briefcase. he scrambles to his feet and runs to the library door. he pounds on it and yanks at the doorknob, but it's locked.
philip: help! help! somebody, please!
scene direction: diedre slowly advances on him.
scene direction: philip to himself
philip: god, no!
scene direction: philip loud
philip: help!
scene direction: cut inside. buffy is doing step aerobics to a techno beat. giles is sitting at the table with his hands to his ears, not relishing the music. he raises his head.
scene direction: giles loudly over the music
giles: must we have this noise during your calisthenics?
buffy: it's not noise! it's music!
giles: i know music. music has notes. this is noise.
buffy: i'm aerobicising! i must have a beat!
scene direction: giles under the music
giles: wonderful. you work on your muscle tone while my brain dribbles out of my ears.
scene direction: cut outside. philip is still pounding on the door.
philip: help! help! please!
scene direction: diedre continues to advance on him.
philip: help me, somebody, please!
scene direction: diedre has closed the gap. philip turns to face her with horror in his eyes. she puts her hands up to the door on either side of him to prevent his escape. he trembles with fear as she moves her hands onto his neck and begins to choke him.
scene direction: cut inside. buffy has finished her aerobics. she strolls to the table and turns off her boom box.
giles: ahhh! very good. and the rest is silence.
scene direction: cut outside. philip falls from diedre's grip, dead. a moment later diedre collapses next to him. after she hits the pavement she disintegrates into a puddle of slime. the puddle spreads out and into philip.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: a nightmare. giles is flashing back to his youth. he has visions of rituals and tattooing.
young giles: time to go to sleep!
scene direction: young giles screams
scene change: a vision of a demon. cut to giles' bedroom. he wakes with a start. he looks around as he sits up in bed, concerned but relieved to find it was only a nightmare.
scene change: cut to school. the camera pans down from above a tree to buffy and willow sitting on a bench.
buffy: i'm on a beach, but not one of those american beaches, one of those island beaches where the water's way too blue, and i'm laying on my towel, and it's just before sunset, and gavin rossdale's massaging my feet!
willow: oh, that's good! uh, i'm in florence, italy, i've rented a scooter that's parked outside, and i'm in a little restaurant eating ziti, and there are no more tables left, so they have to seat this guy with me, and it's john cusack!
buffy: ooo! very impressive. you have such an eye for detail.
willow: 'cause with the ziti!
scene direction: xander shows up
xander: what are you two up to?
buffy: just having a quick game of 'anywhere but here'.
xander: ooohhh. amy yip at the waterslide park.
willow: you never come up with anything new.
xander: i'm just not fickle like you two, okay? i'm constant in my affections. amy yip at the waterslide park!
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: do you think giles ever played 'anywhere but here' when he was in school?
scene direction: they see him coming toward them.
xander: giles lived for school. he's actually still bitter that there are only twelve grades.
buffy: he probably sat in math class thinking, 'there should be more math. this could be mathier.' willow: c'mon, you don't think he ever got restless as a kid?
buffy: are you kidding? his diapers were tweed.
scene direction: xander chuckles. buffy sees giles about to walk by and calls out to him.
buffy: giles!
scene direction: giles turns and sees them
giles: oh! there you are.
scene direction: giles comes over
buffy: hey, morning. say, is that tweed?
scene direction: buffy stares at his jacket
scene direction: giles preoccupied
giles: what? oh, uh, yes. um, now, uh, look, tonight is very important, um...
scene direction: giles heads inside
scene direction: buffy follows
buffy: now, that's a surprise.
scene change: cut to the halls. they follow giles to the library.
buffy: so, what's on tap tonight that's so important? uprising, prophesied ritual, preordained deathfest?
xander: ah, the old standards!
giles: um, a medical transport is delivering the monthly supply of blood to the hospital.
buffy: mm. vampire meals-on-wheels.
scene direction: buffy stops at her locker
giles: hopefully not. uh, we'll meet outside the hospital at 8:30 sharp. i'll bring the weaponry.
buffy: i'll bring the party mix!
giles: just don't be late.
buffy: have i ever let you down?
giles: do you want me to answer that, or shall i just glare?
scene direction: jenny finds them
jenny: morning, england.
giles: oh, hello, ms., uh, uh, tuh, jenny.
scene direction: willow to xander, smiling
willow: feel the passion!
scene direction: xander smiles back
xander: mm-hm!
jenny: willow...
scene direction: willow coughs
willow: coughing, not speaking.
scene direction: willow coughs more
scene direction: jenny to willow
jenny: we still on for tomorrow?
scene direction: willow smiles and nods.
xander: what's tomorrow?
jenny: i'm reviewing some computer basics for the couple of students who've fallen behind. willow's helping out for extra credit.
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: those poor schlubs have to attend school on saturday!
scene direction: xander smiles
jenny: 9am okay with you, xander?
scene direction: xander's smile fades. willow bobs her head in amusement.
buffy: got a bit of schlub on your shoe there.
xander: heh, heh.
jenny: well, cordelia's gonna meet us.
scene direction: xander dripping with sarcasm
xander: ooo, gang, did ya hear that? a bonus day of class plus cordelia! mix in a little rectal surgery, and it's my best day ever!
scene direction: jenny to giles
jenny: walk me to class?
scene direction: giles a smile on his face
giles: pleasure.
scene direction: jenny and giles head for her class. the others watch them go.
buffy: look at them.
xander: a twosome of cuteness.
willow: can't you just imagine them getting together?
scene change: their expressions all change to ones of being grossed out. cut to giles and jenny walking.
jenny: oh! thank you so much for loaning me the forrester book. it's wonderful!
giles: well, i'm glad you enjoyed it!
jenny: yeah, it was so romantic, so evocative.
giles: that edition was my father's. i, i, i must've read it... twenty times.
jenny: yeah, y'know how you have to, to dog-ear your favorite pages so you can go back to them?
giles: uh, uh, uh, what?
jenny: well, i mean, i-i practically had to fold back every single page. so finally i just, i just started underlining all the pages i really wanted to discuss.
giles: u-u-underlined...?
jenny: but then, of course, i spilled coffee all over it, i can't even read it...
scene direction: giles can't believe it
giles: it's a first edition!
jenny: i'm lying, rupert.
scene direction: jenny smiles
jenny: the book's fine.
scene direction: jenny holds it up
jenny: i just love to see you squirm.
scene direction: jenny hands him the book
scene direction: giles smiles in relief
giles: yes, well, i, uh... trust i gave good... squirm.
jenny: did anyone ever tell you you're kind of a fuddy-duddy?
giles: nobody ever seems to tell me anything else.
jenny: did anyone ever tell you you're kind of a sexy fuddy-duddy?
giles: well, no. actually that, that part usually gets left out.
scene direction: giles smiles
giles: i c-can't imagine why.
jenny: this weekend.
giles: would you like to go out?
jenny: mm, no, i think i'd like to stay in.
scene direction: they draw together for a kiss as the bell rings. they touch lips, but break it off as students begin pouring into the halls.
giles: uh, this,
scene direction: giles clears his throat
giles: saturday, then.
jenny: saturday night.
scene direction: jenny clears her throat
jenny: i'll see if i can make you squirm.
scene direction: they look at each other for a moment before giles heads off to his library.
scene change: cut to the library. giles walks in to discover a detective and two police officers there.
det. winslow: rupert giles?
giles: yes?
det. winslow: detective winslow. you're gonna have to come with me.
giles: why?
det. winslow: there was a homicide on campus last night. the victim had no identification, but he was carrying this slip of paper with your name and address on it.
scene direction: det. winslow holds up the slip in a baggie
scene direction: giles sets down his briefcase
giles: my name?
scene direction: cordelia walks into the library.
cordelia: well, evil just compounds evil, doesn't it? first i'm sentenced to a computer tutorial on saturday, now i have to read some computer book... there are books on computers? isn't the point of computers to replace books?
scene direction: giles cuts her off
giles: cordelia, i'm a little busy right now.
scene direction: giles points out the detective
cordelia: oh! great!
scene direction: cordelia steps up to det. winslow
cordelia: can you help me with a ticket? it's totally bogus. it was a one-way street. i was going one way.
scene direction: giles raised voice
giles: cordelia!
cordelia: what?! why does everyone always yell my name? i'm not deaf! and i can take a hint.
scene direction: cordelia unsure
cordelia: what's the hint?
giles: to come back later.
cordelia: yeah, when you've visited decaf land.
scene direction: cordelia leaves
scene direction: giles to det. winslow
giles: where do you want me to go?
scene change: cut to the city morgue. the coroner opens one of the body storage doors and pulls out the drawer.
attendant: have you had your breakfast?
giles: no.
attendant: that was probably a good idea.
scene direction: he pulls back the sheet to reveal philip's body. it's bruised all over, with two especially dark bruises on the throat. giles looks down at him in recognition.
det. winslow: do you know him?
scene direction: giles whispers
giles: yes. yes. i-i mean, i did. his name's philip henry. he was a friend of mine in london. i... i haven't spoken to him in twenty years.
det. winslow: can you think of any reason why he might've wanted to contact you?
giles: no.
scene direction: he sees the tattoo on philip's right arm near the inside elbow.
det. winslow: do you know what that is? the tattoo.
scene direction: giles lies
giles: no. no, i don't.
scene change: cut to the hospital er entrance that night. buffy is waiting on giles.
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: 'don't be late.' sheesh.
scene direction: she walks over to a pay phone to try calling, but stops when she sees the blood van pull up. the driver gets out with his clipboard as two er doctors come out to meet him.
driver: hey, fellas.
doctor: hey.
buffy: all's well that ends with cute er doctors, i always say.
scene direction: she watches them go to the back of the van and get out the insulated container. they start back with the driver, and he gets back into the van. buffy realizes something's wrong.
buffy: since when do doctors take deliveries?
scene direction: the van backs out of the ambulance slot. the doctors wave to the driver.
doctor: see ya.
scene direction: the van drives off, and behind it a car engine starts and a pair of headlights come on. the old convertible pulls up into the light as the doctors set the container down. one of them opens the lid, takes out a bag of blood and begins to suck on it. the driver of the car gets out.
driver: hey! no sampling the product!
scene direction: the doctor vampire hisses, but puts the bag back down and drops the lid closed. buffy runs to attack. she kicks the first doctor vampire down, then the second, and does a roundhouse kick to the driver's face. the first one gets up, and she tries kicking him again, but he grabs her leg and throws her onto the hood of the car. she scissor kicks him in the neck, and he staggers away and falls. a fourth vampire runs up as buffy gets up and takes out a stake. she turns to attack him.
buffy: angel!
angel: buffy! look out!
scene direction: he jumps up onto the car's hood and leaps off to tackle the driver vampire coming at her from behind. angel punches him in the face, but he stays up. the second vampire jumps up onto the hood and swings at buffy.
scene direction: she ducks the punch and jabs him in the chest. the first vampire jumps up on the hood, too, and buffy knocks him back off with a punch to the face. she punches the second one in the face, too, and he falls down on the hood on his back. she jumps off of the car and thrusts her stake into the first vampire as he tries to get back up. the second one is off the car again and grabs her by the shirt from behind. she swings around with the stake and gets him in the chest also. angel, in the mean time, roundhouse kicks the driver and sends him spinning into the car. the vampire quickly sits up in the driver's seat and floors it as angel tries to chase him. the car races off, leaving angel and the blood behind. buffy opens the lid to check on it.
buffy: how did you know about this?
angel: it's delivery day. everybody knows about this. they only ruined one bag.
scene direction: buffy stands up and looks after the car, which is long gone. angel kicks the lid back closed.
buffy: do you think you could make sure the hospital gets the rest?
scene direction: she realizes whom she's just asked to do that and raises her eyebrows at him. angel just nods, not insulted by the query.
buffy: thanks. i'm worried about giles. he was supposed to meet me here.
angel: maybe he's late.
buffy: giles? who counts tardiness as, like, the eighth deadly sin?
angel: right. go.
scene direction: she gives him a final look and hurries off.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment building. buffy walks to his door and knocks.
scene direction: giles opens the viewport and looks out at her, then opens the door.
giles: buffy. i-it's late. uh, are you alright?
buffy: i was gonna ask you the same thing.
giles: yes, i'm fine, fine. look, i'm, uh, i'm rather busy a-at the moment, so, uh, i'll see you on monday at, at school.
scene direction: he starts to close the door. buffy holds it open with her hand.
buffy: giles, did you forget? the hospital, vampires, handy carryout packets of blood?
giles: oh! yes, uh, are you alright? w-were you hurt?
buffy: no. i mean, my feelings a little. what's wrong?
giles: nothing, nothing, nothing's wrong. i-i'm just in the, uh, middle of something extremely important, and, uh, i'm sorry, but i'm gonna have to say good night now.
scene direction: he closes the door in her face, leaving her confused and taken aback.
scene direction: she can hear giles on the phone, but leaves him alone to his work. cut inside.
giles: yes, i'm, i'm sorry to disturb you. it's, uh... i-i realize it's, uh, five in the morning there, um... uh, i-i'm trying to reach diedre page. my name is rupert giles, uh, uh, she knows me. it's, it's very important.
scene direction: giles listens to the bad news
giles: i'm terribly sorry. i... i-i didn't know. w-when did she, uh, pass away?
scene direction: giles listens more
giles: ohhhh. that recently.
scene direction: giles sits at his desk
giles: um, yes, yes, um, we were friends when we were young. my condolences.
scene direction: he hangs up the phone and stares off into space with his fingers to his lips while he considers and remembers. he takes off his glasses and reaches for his drink. the bottle next to it is in almost half empty already. he gulps the rest from the glass and sets it back down. he thinks another moment before grabbing his pen and crossing diedre's name off of a list of five names - thomas sutcliff, philip henry, diedre page, ethan rayne, rupert giles. he gets up and goes into his bathroom to the sink in front of the mirror. he rolls up his sleeves, and on his left arm just above the inside elbow is the same tattoo that philip had. he reaches into the sink full of water, cups his hands and splashes some on his face. he looks up at himself in the mirror.
giles: so. you're back.
scene change: cut to the city morgue. the camera slowly closes on the body storage drawers. cut inside philip's drawer. he reaches up and pulls the sheet off of his face. his eyes glow yellow.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: the city morgue. the morgue attendant is going through some paperwork and checking on bodies. he opens one storage bay, checks the toe tag, and closes it. he does the same for the next one. then he opens philip's, and discovers him missing. suddenly a body bag comes down over his head. he tries to struggle, but philip is too strong for him. philip forces him into the storage bay and slams the door shut. he slowly starts to make his way out of the morgue.
scene change: cut to the hall at sunnydale high. jenny, xander, willow and cordelia head for the computer classroom.
cordelia: this isn't right. school on a saturday. it throws off my internal clock.
xander: when are we gonna need computers for real life anyway?
jenny: hmm, let's see. there's home, school, work, games...
scene direction: jenny unlocks the classroom door
xander: y'know, computers are on the way out. i think paper's gonna make a big comeback.
willow: and the abacus.
xander: yeah, you know, you don't see enough abaci.
scene direction: they all go into the room. willow, xander and cordelia each take a seat in front of a pc. cordelia takes the one next to xander.
jenny: alright, guys. the first thing we're gonna do is... buffy!
scene direction: buffy follows jenny into the room.
xander: huh? did i fall asleep already?
willow: aw, you miss your friends?
xander: uh, sit here, buffs!
scene direction: xander stands up
xander: demilitarize the zone between me and cordelia!
cordelia: yeah, and delouse him while you're at it.
scene direction: buffy to jenny
buffy: actually i wanted to talk to you for a second?
jenny: something wrong?
xander: is there some crisis that requires instant action? very far from here?
buffy: it's giles.
jenny: well, he's alright, isn't he?
buffy: i don't know. uh, he didn't show up when he was supposed to last night, and then, when i went over to his place, he was acting... well, very anti-giles. he wouldn't let me in, and he looked really bad. i-i think he might've been...
scene direction: buffy doesn't want to believe it
buffy: i think he was drinking.
jenny: he was home alone drinking?
willow: but... tea, right?
buffy: wasn't tea, will.
xander: yep, yep, i knew this would happen. nobody can be wound as straight and narrow as giles without a dark side erupting. my uncle roary was the stodgiest taxidermist you've ever met by day. by night, it was booze, whores, and fur flying. were there whores?
buffy: he was alone.
xander: give it time.
buffy: so, none of you guys have noticed anything different lately?
willow: no!
jenny: not really.
buffy: uh, you haven't seen anything weird?
xander: nope.
cordelia: no, he seemed perfectly normal yesterday when i saw him talking to the police.
scene direction: everyone stares at her.
buffy: and you waited till now to tell us this because...?
cordelia: i didn't think it was important.
xander: we understand. it wasn't about you.
jenny: well, what were the police talking to him about?
cordelia: oh, don't tell me, i know this one. um...
scene direction: cordelia thinks
cordelia: something about... a homicide.
buffy: that's it. i-i'm calling him right now.
scene direction: she goes to find a phone. jenny rubs her head with worry.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy heads for giles' office when she hears something in the stacks and stops in her tracks to look. she sees a shadow move across one of the bookcases in the anteroom. she goes up the stairs and through the french doors. slowly she walks down the main aisle, looking around and down each side aisle. as she passes one a man watches her search. buffy keeps looking. he sees her through a gap in the books and puts his hands against the bookcase to push it over onto her. she looks up and sees it's ethan, and dashes away just in time to avoid being crushed under the bookcase. ethan tries to make his escape, but he's limping heavily and can't run. she grabs him by the arm and turns him around.
buffy: i know you! you were in that costume shop.
ethan: oh, i'm pleased you remember.
scene direction: ethan tries to go
scene direction: buffy stops him
buffy: you sold me that dress for halloween, and nearly got us all killed!
ethan: but you looked great.
scene direction: she punches him squarely in the jaw.
ethan: owww!
scene direction: ethan straightens back up holding his jaw
ethan: so now we're even?
buffy: i'll let you know when we're even. what're you doing here?
ethan: snooping around.
buffy: honesty. nice touch.
ethan: it's one of my virtues.
scene direction: ethan smiles
ethan: not really.
buffy: i've got a great idea: why don't i just call the police and have you arrested for breaking and entering, and then i can get back to my fun saturday?
ethan: yes, the police. well, they'll have all those questions, and they'll really need rupert to answer them all.
buffy: you know giles.
ethan: we go back. way back. you don't happen to know where he is, do you?
scene change: cut to giles' nightmare. the tattoo on his arm. visions of a demon, of diedre in her rotted state, of eyes glowing yellow. his phone rings. cut to his apartment. he stirs at his desk and fumbles with the phone, managing to pick up the receiver.
giles: hello.
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: giles, it's me.
scene direction: giles cut to him
scene direction: giles exhales
giles: buffy, u-unless this is an emergency, i'll see you on monday.
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: what's the mark of eyghon?
scene change: cut to giles. he is surprised to hear those words from her. cut to the library.
buffy: giles?
ethan: cat got his tongue?
buffy: i'm in your office with someone who claims to be an old friend of yours.
scene direction: buffy cut to giles
buffy: ethan rayne?
giles: he's there with you? listen, buffy, you're... you're in grave danger while ethan's there. i want you to
scene direction: giles cut to buffy
giles: put the phone down and get out of the library as soon as possible.
buffy: i'm not going anywhere until you give me some answers!
scene direction: philip comes crashing through a window in giles' office. ethan steps behind buffy and holds her in front of him.
giles: buffy?
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he grabs his glasses and runs from his apartment. cut to the library. philip comes out of giles' office and straight for buffy. she kicks him in the chest and rolls over the counter. he comes through the door and at her again. ethan climbs over the counter, too.
philip: ethan!
scene direction: xander comes in, followed by the others.
buffy: don't let him get away!
scene direction: xander pushes ethan up against the counter, but gets pushed aside. the doors are held wide open by the women, and ethan tries to make his escape past them, but cordelia knees him in the crotch and he collapses.
scene direction: buffy looks around for what to do with philip and spots the open cage door. she backs toward it, then turns and makes like she's running in.
scene direction: philip hurries to follow, but she sidesteps the door and kicks him into the cage as he runs by. she slams the door shut and locks it. ethan is still lying in pain on the floor.
scene change: dissolve to later. ethan is sitting in a chair at the table being watched by buffy. the others observe philip. willow has seen enough and goes over to buffy.
willow: i'm not gonna get close enough to feel his pulse, but... he looks dead.
xander: except for the walking and attacking buffy part.
ethan: he's dead. sorry, philip. really i am.
scene direction: giles barges into the library.
giles: is everyone alright?
cordelia: super!
scene direction: cordelia proud of herself
cordelia: i kicked a guy!
jenny: we're okay.
xander: deadguy here interrupted our tutorial.
scene direction: xander to philip
xander: been meaning to thank you for that.
scene direction: philip jumps at him, and xander backs off. giles walks over to have a look at philip.
giles: it can't be!
ethan: yes, it can.
scene direction: ethan giles turns to him
ethan: hello, ripper.
giles: i thought i told you to leave town.
ethan: you did. i didn't.
scene direction: ethan giles approaches him
ethan: shop's lease is paid till the end of the month.
scene direction: cordelia to xander
cordelia: uh, why did he call him ripper?
scene direction: giles grabs ethan by the hair on the back of his neck and lifts him out of his chair.
giles: you should've left when i told you.
cordelia: ohhhh...
buffy: giles?!
giles: you put these people in danger. the people i care about.
ethan: if you cared so much about them, why didn't *you* leave town?
scene direction: ethan pushes giles' arm away
ethan: you've been having the dreams, i know. i have. we both know what's coming.
buffy: what dreams?! what is going on here?!
ethan: tell her, ripper.
buffy: giles...
scene direction: philip breaks the cage door and throws it open into jenny, knocking her out. xander quickly moves away and pushes cordelia with him.
giles: jenny!
scene direction: he scrambles to her aid. buffy gets between ethan and philip and kicks him in the chest three times, forcing him back against the cage. he slides down to the floor, but gets back up and comes for buffy again.
scene direction: before he can reach her, his eyes go wide, he begins to convulse and he collapses to the floor next to jenny. he disintegrates into a puddle of slime. it begins to spread out. everyone stares.
willow: now, there's something you don't see everyday.
cordelia: i'm gonna be in therapy till i'm thirty.
scene direction: buffy looks around
buffy: where's ethan?
scene direction: buffy runs off
buffy: where'd he go?
scene direction: the slime oozes its way to jenny, and her hand stirs when it makes contact. she regains consciousness, and giles helps her sit up.
giles: are you alright, jenny?
jenny: ow!
scene direction: jenny cradles her head in her hand
giles: careful!
jenny: ohhh...
giles: can you stand?
scene direction: giles helps her up
jenny: i think so.
cordelia: this is what happens when you have school on saturday.
scene direction: xander gives her a look.
scene direction: jenny unsteady
jenny: mm.
giles: lean on me.
scene direction: giles pulls her close
giles: it'll be alright.
scene direction: jenny pulls away to look at him
jenny: promise?
giles: i promise.
jenny: i believe you.
scene direction: she closes her eyes and leans on his shoulder, hugging him close. when she opens her eyes again they glow yellow like cat's eyes.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the library. giles is at the table stroking jenny's hair as she rests her head against her hand. buffy comes striding back into the library.
giles: how's your head?
jenny: throbbing.
buffy: i lost ethan. giles, what's going on?
giles: it's complicated, buffy, and quite frankly, it's private.
buffy: i don't care from private! i care from dead guys attacking us. i care from you lost weekending in your apartment.
giles: i wasn't... i was just trying to find a solution.
buffy: giles, share! what is the mark of eyghon?
giles: hey!
scene direction: giles stares her down
giles: this is not your battle! and as your watcher,
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: i'm telling you unequivocally to stay out of it!
scene direction: buffy can't believe what she's hearing.
giles: i have to get jenny home.
scene direction: giles helps her up
jenny: mm. thank you.
scene direction: she rests her head on his shoulder as the two of them walk from the library. buffy goes over to the others sitting and leaning on the counter.
buffy: we have work to do. will, i want you to find out anything and everything you can about the mark of eyghon.
willow: i'll try the 'net, but 'mark of eyghon' sounds like giles and his books sorta deal.
buffy: then we hit the books.
scene direction: willow heads up into the stacks.
buffy: xander, how do you feel about digging through some of giles' personal files and seeing what you can find?
xander: i feel pretty good about it. does that make me a sociopath?
scene direction: nah. (heads for the office)
scene direction: cordelia hops off of the counter and smiles at buffy.
scene direction: buffy raises her brows
buffy: what?
cordelia: what about me? i care about giles.
scene direction: buffy thinks
buffy: uh, work with xander.
cordelia: well, when i say 'care', i, i mean...
buffy: cordelia...
cordelia: okay, okay!
scene direction: cordelia walks to the office
scene direction: buffy goes to do what she can to help, too.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment building.
jenny: thanks for bringing me here.
scene direction: jenny cut inside the apartment
jenny: not quite ready to be home alone just yet.
scene direction: she accepts a drink from giles. he walks around the couch and sits down next to her. she takes a sip of the drink.
jenny: ooo!
giles: jenny, uh... i'm so very sorry about all of this.
scene direction: giles sets down his drink and takes off his glasses
giles: i, uh... i never meant for you to be involved in, in, uh, any of this.
jenny: so i got involved.
scene direction: jenny leans forward
jenny: that's what happens when two people get involved.
scene direction: giles looks at her and smiles. he starts to make a move in to kiss her, but stops himself.
giles: i really am, however, gonna have to get you home. it's not, uh... i'm not a very safe person to be around at the moment.
jenny: nothing's safe in this world, rupert. don't you know that by now?
scene direction: she reaches up and strokes his head behind his ear.
scene change: cut to the library. willow has found something.
willow: ah! aha! it's not egyptian, it's etruscan
scene direction: willow goes over to buffy with her book
willow: mistaken for egyptian by the design pattern, but any fool can see it predates their iconology. look, the mark of eyghon, worn by his initiates.
scene direction: willow reads
willow: 'eyghon, also called the sleepwalker, can only exist in this reality by possessing an unconscious host. temporary possession imbues the host with a euphoric feeling of power.' buffy: yeah, but what about non-temporary?
scene direction: willow reads
willow: 'unless the proper rituals are observed, the possession is permanent, and eyghon will be born from within the host.' cordelia: i'm guessing eww!
willow: wait. hey, listen. 'once called, eyghon can also take possession of the dead, but its demonic energy soon disintegrates the host, and it must jump to the nearest dead or unconscious person to continue living.' buffy: i still don't get what this has to do with giles.
willow: i don't know about giles, but ancient sects used to induce possession for bacchanals and, and orgies.
xander: okay! giles and orgies in the same sentence. i coulda lived without that one.
scene direction: cordelia could've lived without xander's comment.
buffy: uh, wait a minute. the dead guy's all puddly now.
cordelia: so the demon's gone. there was no one dead to jump into. i mean, we're all not dead, right?
buffy: no, no one dead.
xander: but someone unconscious.
scene direction: they realize what happened.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. jenny yanks the phone cord from the wall.
giles: what was that?
jenny: what was what?
giles: i thought i heard something.
scene direction: giles comes out of the kitchen with tea
jenny: i didn't.
giles: here.
scene direction: giles hands her a cup
giles: drink that, and then i'll drive you home.
scene direction: jenny takes a sip
jenny: you could take me home.
scene direction: jenny sets the cup down
jenny: or you could take advantage of me in my weakened state.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy is on the phone.
buffy: thank you, operator.
scene direction: buffy hangs up
buffy: there's no answer at ms. calendar's, and giles' phone is out of order. i'm gonna go over there.
scene direction: buffy strides out
scene change: cut to giles' apartment.
giles: jenny, uh...
scene direction: giles moves away
giles: i'm, i'm really very attracted t-to you.
jenny: good.
scene direction: jenny follows
giles: but, um, now really isn't the right time.
scene direction: giles faces her
jenny: oh, there's never been a better time.
scene direction: she pushed him back onto a chair, climbs onto his lap and kisses him hard. he pushes her away.
giles: it's not right. i would be taking advantage.
scene direction: jenny gets off
jenny: god, you just don't change, do you?
scene direction: jenny paces
giles: what?
jenny: it's not right, it wouldn't be proper, people might get hurt. you're like a woman, ripper. you cry at every funeral. you never had the strength for me. you don't deserve me.
scene direction: jenny whispers
jenny: but guess what? you've got me.
scene direction: jenny takes his head
scene direction: jenny in a deep male voice
jenny: under your skin.
scene direction: she grabs his hair and lifts him to his feet. she kisses him roughly.
scene direction: when she pulls back her face has started the transformation to eyghon.
eyghon [jenny]: was it good for you?
scene direction: she smashes his head into the phone on the desk.
eyghon [jenny]: aw, you never had the stomach. but that's okay. 'cause i'm about to rip it out!
scene direction: she pulls him back, and he cries out as he staggers backward into the bar and stumbles to the floor. buffy kicks open the door and kicks eyghon [jenny] hard in the jaw, sending her back over the couch and onto the floor. she gets up again and walks around the couch, eyeing buffy.
buffy: back off!
scene direction: eyghon [jenny] stops and laughs
eyghon [jenny]: three down, two to go. be seeing ya.
scene direction: she runs and dives through the window. buffy crouches down beside giles.
buffy: are you alright?
giles: oh, jenny! oh, god!
buffy: giles, how do we stop this?
giles: oh, god, what have i done?
buffy: talk to me! giles, you're scaring me.
giles: i'm sorry.
buffy: don't be sorry, be giles. c'mon, we fight monsters. this is what we do. they show up, they scare us, i beat 'em up and they go away. this isn't any different!
giles: it *is* different.
buffy: because you don't know how to stop it?
giles: because i created it!
scene change: cut to the library. xander comes out of giles' office.
willow: did you find anything?
xander: the most meticulous banking and phone records you've ever seen. and, um, this.
scene direction: he hands her a picture of a young giles in a leather jacket playing an electric bass.
scene direction: willow giggles
willow: that's giles?
scene change: cut to giles' apartment.
giles: i was twenty-one, studying history at oxford. and, of course, the occult by night. i hated it. the tedious grind of study, the... overwhelming pressure of my destiny. i dropped out, i went to london...
scene direction: (exhales) i fell in with the worst crowd that would have me. we practiced magicks. small stuff for pleasure or gain. and ethan and i discovered something... bigger.
buffy: eyghon.
giles: yes. one of us would, um...
scene direction: giles nervously pours a drink
giles: go into a deep sleep, and the others would, uh, summon him. it was an extraordinary high!
scene direction: giles smiles nervously
giles: god, we were fools.
buffy: you couldn't control it.
giles: one of us, randall, he lost control. eyghon took him whole. we tried to exorcise the demon from randall, but it killed him. no. we killed him. we thought we were free of the demon after that. but now he's back. and one by one, he will kill us all.
buffy: three down, two to go?
scene direction: giles nods.
buffy: then it's going after ethan.
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: i better beat it there.
scene direction: giles gets up
giles: *we'd* better.
buffy: *i'd* better. giles, you're barely mobile, and speed is of a serious essence here.
scene direction: giles sits back down
giles: i don't know how to stop it without killing jenny.
buffy: i've got the guys working on it. i'll, um, try to contain it until we figure something.
scene direction: buffy starts to go
giles: buffy?
scene direction: giles she stops
giles: i'm sorry.
buffy: i know.
scene direction: buffy leaves
scene change: cut to the street in front of ethan's. cut inside. buffy opens the door and looks in.
buffy: ethan?
scene direction: buffy comes in and closes the door
buffy: ethan?
scene direction: buffy looks around
scene direction: giles told me everything. look, it's coming for you.
scene direction: ethan appears behind her
ethan: and you came to protect me? i'm touched.
buffy: don't worry, it's nothing personal. to protect giles i have to protect you.
scene direction: buffy walks past him
ethan: how does ripper inspire such goodness?
buffy: 'cause he's giles.
ethan: and i'm not. still, lucky me.
buffy: hmm. lucky you.
ethan: well, we can't run. eyghon will find us.
scene direction: ethan shows his tattoo
ethan: this mark's like a homing beacon.
buffy: that's okay. i'm not much into running.
ethan: aren't we manly?
buffy: one of us is. you're gonna hide till it's over.
ethan: excellent plan.
buffy: is there a way in through the back?
ethan: uh, there's a back door. it's locked. i think it's solid.
buffy: we'll set up there. let's go.
ethan: oh, no, please.
scene direction: he indicates she should go first. she heads toward the back as he picks up a mannequin arm and hits her across the back with it, knocking her down and out.
ethan: ladies first.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: ethan's shop. he's humming while he works. buffy is lying face down on a table with her arms tied together underneath. she wakes up.
ethan: wakey, wakey. you're missing all the fun.
buffy: what fun?
ethan: your initiation.
scene direction: he sets down a tray of tattooing instruments.
buffy: you know what? i'm not real interested in joining your club.
ethan: too late. i already voted you in.
scene direction: ethan she struggles
ethan: y'know, i hope you're not taking this personally, buffy. i actually kinda like you. it's ju, it's just that i like myself a whole lot more. if you think of it karmically, this is, this is really big for your soul.
scene direction: buffy struggles with the rope.
ethan: you know, taking my place with the demon, giving so that others may live.
buffy: i'm gonna kill you. will that blow the whole karma thing?
ethan: sweet child.
scene direction: ethan takes the tattoo ink and needle
ethan: now, this may sting a little just at first. but don't worry, that'll go away once the searing pain kicks in.
scene direction: buffy struggles harder. he bends over her to begin.
ethan: you can go ahead and scream if you like.
scene direction: he starts tattooing her on the back of her neck.
scene change: cut to the library. willow, xander and cordelia are researching books.
willow: we have to figure out how to kill this thing, and we need to do it fast.
scene direction: willow takes a sip of tea
scene direction: xander reads
xander: uh, 'hot lava.' willow: that's for a heretic.
xander: oh, yeah. yeah, yeah, okay. uh, ooo, ooo! 'bury a potato!' no, that's for warts. who writes this stuff?
cordelia: i've got the solution right here. 'to kill a demon cut off its head.' xander: oh, yeah-yeah-yeah-yeah! we'll, uh, find ms. calendar, then we'll decapitate her. hey! she'll be the first headless computer teacher in school. you think anybody'll notice?
cordelia: do you know what you need, xander, besides a year's supply of acne cream? a brain.
scene direction: xander gets up
xander: that's it! twelve years of you and i'm snappin'! i don't care if you're a girl or not, i'm throwin' down! come on!
scene direction: cordelia gets up and walks to him
cordelia: i've seen you fight. and don't think i can't take you!
xander: give it your best shot.
scene direction: willow had enough, gets up
willow: hey! we don't have time for this! our friends are in trouble! now, we have to put our heads together and, and get them out of it! and if you two aren't with me a hundred and ten percent, then get the hell out of my library!
scene direction: willow points to the door
scene direction: cordelia meekly
cordelia: we're sorry.
xander: we'll be good.
scene direction: willow nods and sits
willow: okay. now, we've done the research. we just have to figure out how to use it.
xander: oh, hey! why don't we find another dead body for the demon to jump into!
cordelia: yes! at the cemetery.
willow: well, that won't kill the demon. it'll only give it a change of scenery.
scene direction: willow something clicks
willow: oh. oh! oh, i've got it!
scene direction: willow runs for the phone
willow: i've got it!
xander: she's good!
scene direction: xander follows
scene direction: cordelia smiles and follows also.
scene change: cut to ethan's shop. ethan has finished buffy's tattoo.
ethan: hmm. i think i missed my calling as an artist.
buffy: ethan, listen to me. this is a bad idea. you're dealing with something very dangerous.
scene direction: ethan rolls up his left sleeve
ethan: but it will get eyghon off my scent.
scene direction: he picks up a bottle of sulfuric acid. buffy draws a breath in fright, thinking the acid is meant for her.
ethan: now relax. i'm finished with you. this is for me.
scene direction: buffy has found an exposed screw on the underside of the table and begins scraping her rope against it. ethan steels himself for the burn of the acid. he slowly pours it onto his mark of eyghon tattoo. buffy looks at him like he's insane. he does his best not to scream but lets out a few grunts of pain. buffy keeps scraping the rope on the screw.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he's about to leave his apartment when he's caught by a waking nightmare and collapses to the floor, unable to remain standing. he has visions of the mark of eyghon and various friends incarnate of eyghon, and finally of buffy with her new tattoo.
scene direction: he wakes.
giles: oh! ethan... no. no!
scene direction: he quickly gets up, grabs his coat and staggers out the door, still weak and not bothering to close it behind him.
scene change: cut to ethan's. he wraps his arm in a bandage.
ethan: well, i hate to mutilate and run, but...
scene direction: he and buffy see a diffuse green light shine through the shop windows and the shadow of eyghon [jenny] coming to the door. the door opens and eyghon [jenny] steps in, well on her way to transforming into eyghon.
scene direction: eyghon [jenny] to ethan in a deep male voice
eyghon [jenny]: it's your time.
scene direction: buffy is almost through the rope under the table. eyghon [jenny] steps up to ethan. he stares at her in fear. she sniffs a few times and realizes he's not the one she's after anymore. she turns to buffy, and her eyes glow. eyghon [jenny] shoves ethan aside just as buffy gets through the rope. buffy rolls off of the table and onto the floor as eyghon [jenny] lunges for her. she kicks up and flips eyghon [jenny] and the table over and onto the floor. they both get up. eyghon [jenny] holds the table in her hands and rushes buffy with it, pushing her into some crates. giles barges in through the door.
giles: eyghon! take me.
scene direction: eyghon [jenny] tosses the table aside and turns to face giles.
giles: buffy, get out of here!
scene direction: eyghon [jenny] slowly advances on giles.
buffy: no!
scene direction: buffy gets between them
buffy: no!
scene direction: eyghon [jenny] stretches her arm out at buffy, and she goes flying into a pile of boxes. eyghon [jenny] grabs giles by the collar, pulls him around and down to the floor and stands over him.
eyghon [jenny]: i've been waiting a long time to do this.
scene direction: as she bends down to grab giles angel runs in through the door, grabs her and pulls her to the crate, banging her head into it. he takes her by the neck and starts to choke her. willow, xander and cordelia run in next. willow holds giles back as he gets up.
giles: he's killing her!
willow: no! trust me! this is gonna work!
scene direction: angel continues choking eyghon [jenny]. xander helps buffy up. finally eyghon has to jump and does so, right into angel. he drops jenny as he's thrown back into the wall and begins convulsing. when jenny hits the floor she is herself again. willow lets go of giles, and he immediately gets on his hands and knees next to her.
giles: jenny!
scene direction: angel's face twists and contorts as the demons inside of him fight it out. he is thrown to the crate and hits his head. his face goes through a few more contortions when eyghon suddenly appears, apparently gaining the upper hand. after a moment angel's face shifts back to normal, then back to eyghon, then back to normal again. he is thrown back against the wall. another moment's struggle and the demon inside angel throws eyghon out. without a host body to occupy eyghon quickly crumbles into ashes.
scene direction: angel gasps and collapses to the floor. they all run over to his aid.
scene direction: giles reaches out to jenny. she shifts to look at him.
giles: jenny!
jenny: rupert...
scene direction: ethan gets up and runs from the shop.
buffy: you knew that if the demon was in trouble it was gonna jump into the nearest dead person.
angel: i put it in danger.
willow: and it jumped.
scene direction: willow stands up
scene direction: angel gets up
angel: i've had a demon inside me for a couple hundred years...
scene direction: angel exhales
angel: just waitin' for a good fight.
buffy: winner and still champion.
xander: uh, i think that ethan guy disappeared again.
buffy: darn. i really wanted to hit him till he bled.
cordelia: well, at least it's over.
scene direction: buffy and angel look over at jenny and giles. jenny clings to giles as they walk out of the shop.
scene change: cut to school the next day. willow, xander and buffy walk across the quad.
buffy: you know what the worst thing is? i was saving up for some very important shoes, and now i have to blow my entire allowance to get this stupid tattoo removed. let's just hope my mom doesn't see it first.
xander: puttin' that demon into angel was pretty brill, will.
willow: i wasn't sure it was gonna work.
buffy: but it did.
xander: like a charm.
buffy: hey! maybe you should consider a career as a watcher.
willow: oh, no, i don't think i could handle the stress.
xander: and the dental plan is crap.
willow: i don't see how giles does it.
scene direction: they see him walking.
buffy: i don't think he has a choice.
scene change: cut to the hall. jenny walks to the stairs and is about to start up when giles catches up with her.
giles: uh, uh, jenny! jenny...
scene direction: she stops and turns to face him.
jenny: rupert, hi.
giles: uh... i-i-i tried to call you last night, s-see how you were.
jenny: yeah, i-i-i, uh... i left my phone off the hook. i seem to need a lot of sleep lately.
giles: but, but you're al-alright? is, is, is there anything you need?
jenny: mm, no, i'm fine. i mean, i'm not... running around, wind in my hair, 'the hills are alive with the sound of music' fine, but... i'm coping.
giles: i, i would like to help.
jenny: i know.
giles: perhaps we could, um, talk sometime, um... dinner, or, or a drink? when you're feeling stronger.
scene direction: buffy sees them talking.
jenny: sure, sometime.
scene direction: giles reaches out to her, but she takes a backward step up and away from him and draws a deep breath.
jenny: yeah. sometime.
scene direction: jenny pauses
jenny: i better get to class.
giles: yes, of course.
scene direction: he watches her go up the stairs. when she's gone from sight he looks down sadly, and after a moment starts to go to his library. buffy catches up to him.
buffy: hey.
scene direction: they round the corner and stop.
buffy: is she okay?
giles: um... the hills are not alive.
scene direction: buffy doesn't understand
buffy: i'm sorry to hear that. i think.
giles: i don't think she'll ever really forgive me. maybe she shouldn't.
buffy: maybe you should.
giles: i never wanted you to see that side of me.
buffy: i'm not gonna lie to you. it was scary. i'm so used to you being a grownup, and
scene direction: buffy inhales
buffy: then i find out that you're a person.
giles: most grownups are.
buffy: who would've thought?
giles: some are even, uh... shortsighted, foolish people.
buffy: so, after all this time, we finally find out that we *do* have something in common. which, apart from being a little weird, is kind of okay.
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: i think we're supposed to be training right now.
giles: yes. yes. um, need to concentrate on your flexibility.
buffy: and you know what? i have just the perfect music.
scene direction: buffy holds up a black cd
buffy: go on, say it. you know you want to.
giles: it's not music, it's just, uh, meaningless sounds.
buffy: there. feel better?
giles: yes. thanks.
scene direction: they head into the next hall toward the library.
giles: bay city rollers. now, that's music.
