scene direction: sunnydale high.
snyder: a lot of educators tell students, 'think of your principal as your pal.' cut to snyder's office. he's lecturing buffy and sheila.
snyder: i say, 'think of me as your judge, jury, and executioner.' tell me, who do you think is the most troublesome student in this school?
scene direction: the camera pans from sheila, looking blase', over to buffy, looking apprehensive.
snyder: well, it is quite a match between you two. on the one hand, buffy hasn't stabbed a horticulture teacher with a trowel.
sheila: i didn't stab anyone with a trowel. they were pruning shears.
snyder: on the other hand, sheila has never burned down a school building.
buffy: w-well, that was never proven. the fire marshall said i-it coulda been mice.
snyder: mice.
buffy: m-mice that were smoking?
snyder: the two of you seem to be tied in the class-cutting and fight- starting events. you really are neck and neck here. it's quite exciting.
sheila: what does the winner get?
snyder: expelled.
scene direction: snyder buffy looks at him in shock
snyder: thursday is parent- teacher night. your parents, assuming you have any, will meet your teachers, assuming you have any left. i've decided to put the two of you in charge of this event. you have three days to prepare the refreshments, make the banners and transform the school lounge into a habitable place for adults. this will incur my good will. and may affect what i tell your parents when i meet them. are we clear?
buffy: i'm clear.
scene direction: buffy to sheila
buffy: don't you feel clear?
scene direction: buffy sheila just looks back
buffy: we're very clear.
snyder: good. because you mess up this time, and your parents will be coming to clean out your lockers.
scene change: cut to the school's main entrance. the bell rings. buffy and sheila come walking out of the building.
buffy: well, it shouldn't be that hard. we can work on the banners at lunch tomorrow and figure out refreshments then?
sheila: yeah, sure, whatever.
scene direction: sheila yells
sheila: hey, meat pie!
scene direction: sheila walks off
scene direction: xander and willow meet up with buffy.
xander: snyder's got you guys making party favors, huh?
buffy: his two worst students. that's what mom sees when she looks at me. a sheila.
scene direction: sheila kisses an older boy with long, blonde hair.
xander: well, sheila's definitely intense. that guy with her? that's the guy she *can* bring home to mother.
willow: she was already smoking in fifth grade. once i was lookout for her.
scene direction: xander to willow
xander: you're bad to the bone.
willow: i'm a rebel.
buffy: it's not fair. i'm the slayer. that requires a certain amount of cutting and fighting. what's sheila's excuse?
xander: homework. she won't do it. and most teachers respect that now. oh, you might wanna keep away any sharp implements when you're working with her.
buffy: do you think any other slayers ever had to go to high school?
xander: it's no biggie. you'll have a nice soiree. the parents will love it. as long as nothing really bad happens between now and then, you'll be fine.
buffy: are you crazy? what did you say that for? now something bad is gonna happen!
xander: whadaya mean? nothing's gonna happen.
willow: not until some dummy says, 'as long as nothing bad happens.' buffy: it's the ultimate jinx!
willow: what were you thinking? or were you even thinking at all?
scene direction: the girls give xander looks of exasperation and walk off.
xander: well, you guys don't know.
scene direction: xander hugs his satchel
xander: maybe this time it'll be different.
scene change: cut to a small park and playground that night. a classic 1958 dodge desoto fireflite crashes through the 'welcome to sunnydale' sign and screeches to a halt. spike gets out and strolls over to the curb. he takes a deep breath and lights a cigarette.
spike: home, sweet home.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: inside collin's warehouse.
vampire#1: the master is dead. someone has to take his place.
vampire#2: as long as the slayer's alive, whoever takes his place will be sharing his grave.
vampire#1: then let the soul who kills her wear his mantle.
collin: can you do it?
vampire#1: yes. this weekend, the night of st. vigeous, our power shall be at its peak. when i kill her, it'll be the greatest event since the crucifixion. and i should know. i was there.
scene direction: spike appears behind them
spike: *you* were *there*?
scene direction: spike chuckles
spike: oh, please! if every vampire who said he was at the crucifixion was actually there, it would have been like woodstock.
vampire#1: i oughta rip your throat out.
scene direction: spike turns his back to him and strolls away
spike: i was actually at woodstock. that was a weird gig. i fed off a flower person, and i spent the next six hours watchin' my hand move.
scene direction: vampire#1 rushes him from behind, and spike swings his fist up without even looking, hitting him in the face and knocking him down and out.
spike: so. who do you kill for fun around here?
collin: who are you?
spike: spike. you're that anointed guy. i read about you.
scene direction: spike growls at vampire#2
spike: you've got slayer problems. that's a bad piece of luck. do you know what i find works real good with slayers? killing them.
collin: can you?
spike: a lot faster than nancy-boy there. yeah, i did a couple slayers in my time. i don't like to brag.
scene direction: spike can't keep a straight face
spike: who am i kidding? i *love* to brag! there was this one slayer during the boxer rebellion, and...
scene direction: he senses someone behind him and turns his head to look as he morphs into his human guise.
spike: drusilla.
scene direction: spike goes to her
spike: you shouldn't be walking around. you're weak.
drusilla: look at all the people. are these nice people?
spike: we're getting along.
scene direction: drusilla stares at collin
drusilla: this one has power. i could feel it from the outside.
spike: yeah. he's the big noise in these parts. anointed, and all that.
scene direction: drusilla to collin
drusilla: do you like daisies? hmm? i plant them, but they always die. everything i put in the ground withers and dies.
scene direction: drusilla looks up and off into space
drusilla: spike? i'm cold.
scene direction: spike puts his jacket around her
spike: i've got you.
drusilla: i'm a princess.
spike: that's what you are.
scene direction: she pricks spike on the cheek with her fingernail, and a bead of blood flows out. she reaches up and licks it off. they move close to kiss but don't, and instead look over at collin.
spike: me and dru, we're movin' in.
scene direction: spike they separate
spike: now. any of you want to test who's got the biggest wrinklies 'round here... step on up.
scene direction: spike to collin
spike: i'll do your slayer for you. but you keep your flunkies from tryin' anything behind my back. deal?
scene direction: collin nods. drusilla bows her head down and puts her hands to her temples.
drusilla: i can't see her. the slayer. i can't see.
scene direction: drusilla looks back up
drusilla: it's dark where she is. kill her. kill her, spike. kill her for me?
spike: it's done, baby.
drusilla: kill her for princess?
spike: i'll chop her into messes.
drusilla: you are my sweet... my little spike.
scene direction: spike to collin
spike: so. how 'bout this slayer? is she tough?
scene change: cut to buffy's room. she's standing at her mirror, trying to brush her hair.
buffy: ow!
joyce: what's wrong?
buffy: i spent a good part of my allowance on this new cream rinse, and it's neither creamy nor rinsey.
joyce: life is hard, dear.
buffy: don't i know it. is that a split end?
joyce: i got the mail.
buffy: good.
joyce: which included a reminder notice about parent-teacher night. thursday.
buffy: that's good.
joyce: which you were planning on telling me about?
buffy: oh, for...
scene direction: buffy faces her mom
buffy: the last two weeks.
joyce: uh-huh. so, what do you think your teachers are gonna tell me about?
buffy: well, i think they'll all agree that i always bring a pen to class, ready to absorb the knowledge.
scene direction: buffy sits on her bed
joyce: and, uh, this absorption rate? how is it reflected in your homework and test scores?
buffy: what can you really tell about a person from a test score?
joyce: whether or not she's ever going out with her friends again.
buffy: oh, that.
joyce: well, i look forward to meeting your principal.
buffy: won't that be something.
scene direction: joyce comes over to the bed
joyce: look, sweetheart. life is more than grades and homework and not getting kicked out of school.
scene direction: joyce sits next to buffy
buffy: i know.
joyce: but we moved once because of you getting in trouble. and i had to start a new business, not to mention a new life in a whole new town.
buffy: and you don't wanna do it again.
joyce: what i don't want is to be disappointed in you again.
buffy: mom, that's the last thing that i want, too.
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: i'm trying, i really am. i just... i have a lot of pressure on me right now.
joyce: wait till you get a job. sleep tight.
scene direction: joyce gets up and leaves
scene direction: buffy gets up from her bed and walks over to her desk. she pulls open the top left drawer. in it is a jar of holy water, a cross, a few stakes, a set of brass knuckles. she looks up at her reflection in the mirror.
buffy: i have a job.
scene change: cut to the school. cut to the lounge. buffy and willow are working on a banner.
willow: sheila's a no-show? she goes to this really rank bar. the fish tank? sometimes they have raids and other stuff that can make you tardy.
buffy: d'you think you can help me cram some french tonight? i don't want mr. dejean telling my mother i'm an imbecile.
willow: i thought we were going to the bronze tonight. 'cause of how you thought angel might show?
xander: if he does he'll meet some other nice girl? studying comes first.
buffy: we're going to the bronze. i can study and party and do parent- teacher night and make my mother proud as long as i don't have to...
scene direction: giles and jenny come walking in.
giles: buffy!
buffy: ...fight vampires.
scene direction: giles to jenny
giles: there is nothing in the chronicles about a-an extraneous lunar cycle.
jenny: the order never accurately calculated the mesopotamian calendar. rupert, you have *got* to read something that was published after 1066.
giles: very funny.
xander: what's the up, guys?
giles: w-um, ms. calendar has been researching, well, uh, surfing on her computer, a-and she's... well, according to her calculations, this saturday is the night of st. vigeous.
buffy: let me guess: he didn't make balloon animals.
giles: no, he led a crusade, of, of, uh, vampires. they swept through edessa, harran, and points east.
jenny: and they didn't leave much behind.
buffy: well, if i survive parent-teacher night tomorrow, i'll see what i can do about saturday.
giles: you're being a tad flip, don't you think? this is serious.
buffy: and getting kicked out of school is laughs aplenty?
giles: you know what happens when you, you let your life interfere with your slaying.
buffy: okay, well, if my slaying doesn't get me expelled, then i promise my banner making won't get me killed, okay? just please let me get through this week.
giles: this saturday's going to need a great deal of preparation.
willow: well, we'll help.
xander: yeah, i'll whittle stakes.
willow: a-and i can research stuff.
xander: and while i'm whittling, i plan to whistle a jaunty tune.
giles: yes, your help will be greatly appreciated, but when it comes to battle, buffy must fight alone. you are, after all, the slay...
scene direction: giles sees snyder in the hall
giles: ...slay-ve. slaves. you're, you're all slaves to the, uh, television.
jenny: yes.
giles: young people nowadays.
scene direction: giles to jenny
giles: shall we go?
jenny: mm, let's.
scene direction: jenny they leave
scene direction: snyder comes over.
scene direction: snyder to willow and xander
snyder: you wouldn't be helping buffy in sheila's place, would you?
scene direction: xander laughs nervously
xander: no.
willow: we're hindering.
snyder: she ditched.
scene direction: snyder takes a deep breath
snyder: mm. i feel an expulsion coming on.
buffy: no. no, actually, sheila's been helping us for hours. um, she just went to get some more paint.
scene direction: sheila comes in the door behind buffy and takes off her glasses. buffy notices snyder looking behind her, turns around and sees her.
buffy: oh! oh, is there no more teal in the art room?
scene direction: buffy goes over to sheila
buffy: i know you wanted everything to be perfect, but let's just go with what we have.
snyder: just make sure everything is perfect on thursday.
scene direction: snyder turns and leaves
sheila: thanks for covering. guy's a serious rodent.
buffy: no problem.
sheila: did you really burn down a school building one time?
buffy: well, not actually one time.
sheila: cool.
scene change: cut to the bronze. nickel is the band tonight. they're in the middle of playing "1000 nights". xander dances lamely by himself as willow helps buffy with her french at a table.
lyrics: a drink you can't resist / and in your head a voice you'll always miss.
buffy: la vache... doit me... touche... de la... jeu di.
scene direction: buffy looks at willow
buffy: was it wrong? should i use the plural?
willow: no. but you said, 'the cow should touch me from thursday.' buffy: maybe that's what i was feeling.
willow: and you said it wrong.
buffy: oh, je stink.
willow: you're just not focused. it's angel missage.
buffy: well, he didn't say for sure. it was a 'maybe see ya there' kinda deal.
xander: guys, i'm all alone out there. somebody has to dance with me.
willow: well, we are studying.
xander: c'mon, one dance. you've been studying nearly twelve minutes.
buffy: no wonder my brain's fried.
scene direction: she gets up. willow starts to protest, but buffy and xander drag her along with them.
buffy: come on.
scene direction: spike walks up to their table and watches them dance as the band starts a new song, "stupid thing".
lyrics: i did a stupid thing last night / i called you / a moment of weakness / no, not a moment / more like three months of weakness.
scene direction: spike walks along the edge of the dance floor and studies buffy intently. xander and buffy dance lively. willow doesn't move much, but smiles widely, enjoying herself.
lyrics: i'm one step away from crashing to my knees / one step away from spilling my guts to you.
scene direction: spike goes over to vampire#1 at the bar.
spike: go get something to eat.
lyrics: i'm doing all right / no, don't feel sorry for me / really i'm all right / i'm one step away from crashing to my knees.
scene direction: he comes back to some people near where buffy, willow and xander are dancing and speaks loudly so that buffy is sure to overhear.
spike: where's the phone? i need to call the police. there's some big guy out there trying to bite somebody.
scene direction: buffy runs from the dance floor. spike watches her go.
scene direction: cut outside to the alley. vampire#1 has found a young woman. she trembles with fear as he grabs her neck and moves in for the bite. buffy grabs him by the shoulder and pulls him off of her. he somersaults and rolls up to his feet.
vampire#1: slayer!
buffy: slayee!
scene direction: she does a roundhouse kick to his face. he only flinches a bit. he swings at her, but she sidesteps the blow. she swings back, and he grabs her arm, swings her around and throws her into a metal roll-up door. she hits it high and hard and falls to the ground, but quickly gets up again. he swings again and hits the metal door with his fist when she ducks the punch. xander and willow arrive. buffy blocks the vampire's punch and holds on to his arm. she looks behind her at the others.
buffy: get her out of here!
scene direction: she turns her attention to punching the vampire repeatedly in the face.
scene direction: willow grabs the woman and pulls her away and out of danger.
scene direction: buffy to the rhythm of her punches
buffy: and a *stake* would be *nice*!
scene direction: xander runs to find a stake. spike looks on from the side.
scene direction: cut inside to the table. xander goes though buffy's purse. he pulls out a yo-yo and sets it aside. he pulls out a tampon and quickly drops it like a hot potato. he finds a stake, and rushes back out.
scene change: cut to the alley. buffy punches the vampire's face again and then his chest. he gets loose from her and lands a punch on her face. she goes spinning down to the ground and lies there, momentarily stunned. the vampire looms over her.
vampire#1: i don't need to wait for st. vigeous. you're mine.
scene direction: he bends down to get her, and she kicks him in the face. he staggers backward as she maneuvers to he feet.
vampire#1: spike! gimme a hand!
scene direction: buffy looks over at spike in the shadows. xander is back with the stake.
xander: buffy!
scene direction: she turns to him and he throws her the stake. she catches it out of the air, and in a smooth, swift motion plunges it home into the vampire's chest. he doesn't even have time to fall before he crumbles to ashes.
scene direction: spike comes out of the shadows slowly clapping his hands. buffy looks at him with a confused expression on her face. willow and xander see him, too.
spike: nice work, love.
buffy: who are you?
spike: you'll find out on saturday.
buffy: what happens on saturday?
spike: i kill you.
scene direction: buffy is speechless and just watches him leave.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: the alley outside the bronze. sheila comes out with two guys and they walk along the alley.
sheila: alright. which one's dwayne and which one's dell?
scene direction: sheila hic
sheila: don't tell me. dell's the one with the tattoos. you guys weren't lyin' about havin' a cadillac, were you? 'cause i'm crazy about a cad. just the feel of the leather makes me wanna...
scene direction: she's gotten a bit ahead of dwayne and stops to look back at him. she sees he's gone.
sheila: where'd you go?
scene direction: she looks the other way at dell, and he's gone, too.
sheila: what's going on?
scene direction: sheila starts walking slowly, looking around
sheila: where are you guys? not funny!
scene direction: she turns around and is startled by spike.
sheila: who are you?
spike: who do you want me to be?
sheila: did you see...
spike: ...those two losers who thought they were good enough for you?
sheila: what happened to 'em?
spike: they got sleepy.
sheila: huh?
spike: and you got something a whole lot better.
scene direction: he slowly walks past her and down the alley. she follows him with her gaze.
sheila: hey, wait up! what's your name?
scene direction: she starts after him. the camera follows her, but then pans down to dwayne and dell, dead in a pile of trash.
scene change: cut to the library. the table is full of books, and xander, willow and jenny are looking through them doing research.
giles: spike. that's what the other vampire called him? that's a little unorthodox, isn't it?
buffy: maybe he's reformed.
giles: perhaps he went by another name in... times past.
jenny: well, whoever he is, we'll need all the help we can get come this saturday.
xander: so, this night of st. vigeous deal. if they're gonna attack in force, aren't we thinkin' vacation?
willow: we can't run, that would be wrong. could we hide? i mean, if that spike guy is leading the attack,
scene direction: willow shudders
willow: yeeehehehe.
giles: well, he can't be any worse than any other creature you've faced.
scene direction: angel suddenly appears
angel: he's worse.
scene direction: angel they all look at him
angel: once he starts something he doesn't stop until everything in his path is dead.
xander: hmm. so, he's thorough, goal-oriented.
buffy: we were at the bronze before. thought you said you might show.
angel: you said you weren't sure if you were going.
buffy: i was being cool. c'mon, you've been dating for, what, like, two hundred years? you don't know what a girl means when she says maybe she'll show?
willow: wow, two centuries of dating. if you only had two a year, that's still, like, four hundred
scene direction: willow buffy gives her a look
willow: dates with four hundred different...
scene direction: willow looks at the mace on the table
willow: why do they call it a mace?
giles: uh, we do have slightly more urgent matters to discuss.
buffy: yeah, like keeping my mom away from principal snyder tomorrow night?
jenny: and not dying saturday.
giles: angel, do you know if this spike fellow goes under any other name?
scene direction: they all look where he was, but he has disappeared. the library doors finish shutting.
xander: okay, that's it. i'm puttin' a collar with a little bell on that guy.
scene change: cut to drusilla's room. there is chanting going on elsewhere. the camera pans from her bed past her tv and lamp and over to her collection of dolls. she lifts one and turns it to face away.
drusilla: miss edith speaks out of turn. she's a bad example, and will have no cakes today. shhhh.
scene direction: spike comes up behind her
spike: darling, are you going to eat something?
drusilla: i'm not hungry. i miss prague.
spike: you nearly died in prague. idiot mob. this is the place for us.
scene direction: spike leads her to the bed
spike: the hellmouth will restore you, put color in your cheeks, metaphorically speaking, and in a few week's time...
scene direction: drusilla lies back on the bed
drusilla: the stars will align, and smile down on us.
scene direction: spike leans over her
spike: and then, god, this town will burn.
scene direction: drusilla giggles
drusilla: a pretty fire!
scene direction: he rolls over her and lies down next to her.
scene direction: drusilla hears the chanting
drusilla: they're preparing.
spike: st. vigeous is coming up. should be a party.
scene direction: sheila is tied up and gagged with her hands hanging from a hook above her.
drusilla: you should go up with them and cleanse.
spike: dru...
drusilla: the boy doesn't trust you. they follow him.
scene direction: drusilla sits up
drusilla: i think sometimes that all my hair will fall out and i'll be bald.
scene direction: spike sits up
spike: never happen. alright.
scene direction: spike gets off of the bed
spike: i'll go up and get chanty with the fellas, but *you*
scene direction: spike goes to sheila
spike: got to do me one favor.
scene direction: spike takes sheila off of the hook
spike: eat something.
scene direction: spike hands sheila to drusilla and leaves
scene direction: drusilla turns sheila to the dolls
drusilla: you see, miss edith?
scene direction: drusilla cut to the doll facing away
drusilla: if you'd been good you could
scene direction: drusilla cut to drusilla in her game face
drusilla: watch with the rest.
scene direction: sheila looks at drusilla, but can't scream because of her gag. drusilla roars and moves in for a quick, violent bite.
scene change: cut to the school the next day. willow checks the crossbow. jenny walks behind her with extra pieces of wood to make stakes and sets them on the table between cordelia and xander, who are whittling away. jenny continues walking over behind buffy. buffy holds up a large sharp machete, then starts chopping something with it. the camera pans down to show that it's a cucumber. she's preparing a vegetable tray.
giles: for three nights the unholy ones scourge themselves into a fury, um, culminating in a savage attack on the night of st. vigeous.
xander: does anybody remember when saturday night meant date night?
cordelia: you sure don't.
buffy: ooo! parents start arriving in an hour. okay, so, um, banners are in place, the lounge is comfy... what am i forgetting?
willow: punch?
buffy: punch. i need, i need punch!
cordelia: my fingers are cramping. how long have i been doing this?
xander: three minutes.
cordelia: so, can i go now? she doesn't need this many stakes. i mean, if this guy spike is as mean as you all said, it should be over pretty quickly.
scene direction: cordelia buffy looks up at her
cordelia: we're still all rooting for you on saturday. i'd be there for you myself if i didn't have a leg wax.
buffy: you guys hold down the fort. i'm punch bound.
scene direction: she leaves the library. as soon as she's gone xander and cordelia both reach over and grab something off of the vegetable tray. buffy sticks her head back in the door.
buffy: no!
scene change: cut to later at parent-teacher night. buffy is doling out the punch into cups. willow comes over.
willow: what kinda punch did you make?
buffy: uh, lemonade.
scene direction: buffy hands her a cup
buffy: i made it fresh and everything.
willow: how much sugar did you use?
scene direction: willow takes a sip
buffy: sugar?
scene direction: willow grimaces at the incredibly sour taste, and puts the cup down.
willow: it's very good.
buffy: okay, now all i have to do is keep my mother and snyder from crossing paths for the rest of the night.
scene direction: willow sees joyce
willow: hi, mrs. summers.
joyce: hi, willow. hi, honey. did you, uh, do all this?
buffy: yeah! um,
scene direction: buffy picks up a cup
buffy: here, have some lemonade.
scene direction: buffy sees snyder
buffy: right after willow shows you the library. i have to stay here and hostess.
scene direction: buffy puts the cup back down
willow: great, the library.
scene direction: willow puts her arm around joyce's shoulder
willow: uh, um, ooo, no, g-giles and everyone...
buffy: ...is locked in there studying. right. french class it is!
scene direction: willow leads joyce away. snyder comes up to buffy.
snyder: was that your mother?
scene direction: she grabs a cup and a ladle full of lemonade and turns toward him.
buffy: here.
scene direction: buffy fakes a spill
buffy: oh! oh, sorry! um, yeah! yeah, i was gonna introduce you, but, um, she wouldn't have said much. y'know, she doesn't speak a word of english.
scene direction: snyder doesn't believe a word of it, and makes tracks to follow joyce and willow. buffy lets out a worried moan and looks up at the clock.
scene change: 615. dissolve to 845. cordelia comes walking in.
cordelia: giles has us locked up in that library working on *your* weapons. even slaves get minimum wage.
scene direction: she stares at buffy's face.
buffy: what?
cordelia: you're starting to look a little slagged. what, are you just skipping foundation entirely now?
buffy: cordelia, i have at least three lives to contend with, none of which really mesh. it's kind of like oil and water and a... third unmeshable thing.
cordelia: yeah, and i can see the oil.
scene direction: cordelia sees joyce talking to willow
scene direction: is that your mom? (buffy looks) now that is a woman that knows how to moisturize. did it, like, skip a generation?
scene direction: joyce comes over
joyce: well, i believe that i have seen every classroom on campus, and just as i get there all your teachers miraculously have stepped out.
scene direction: willow smiles over joyce's shoulder, proud of herself.
buffy: oh!
scene direction: buffy notices snyder coming back into the room
buffy: oh. um, but you haven't seen the boiler room yet. and, you know, that's really interesting, what with the boiler being in the room and all.
scene direction: buffy laughs nervously
scene direction: snyder comes up to the group. joyce offers her hand to him.
joyce: hi. i'm joyce summers. i'm buffy's mother.
scene direction: snyder ignores her hand
snyder: principal snyder. i'm afraid we need to talk. my office is down here.
scene direction: joyce follows snyder to his office. cordelia watches them go with a huge smile on her face.
scene direction: buffy worried
buffy: he didn't look very happy.
willow: but you did such a good job.
cordelia: when they're done talking...
buffy: what?
cordelia: my guess? tenth high school reunion, you'll still be grounded.
scene direction: buffy gives her a look.
willow: cordelia, have some lemonade.
scene direction: cordelia heads over to the punch table.
scene change: cut to the library. giles and jenny continue their research while xander keeps whittling.
giles: oh, there you are.
jenny: there who is?
giles: our new friend spike. he's known as 'william the bloody'. earned his nickname by torturing his victims with railroad spikes. very pleasant. well, here's some good news: he's barely two hundred. he's not even as old as angel is.
scene direction: giles frowns
giles: oh.
xander: that's a bad look, right?
giles: i think your suggestion of running away this saturday might've been a good one. spike has fought two slayers in the last century, and... he's killed them both.
scene change: cut to the lounge. buffy and willow see snyder come back in with joyce.
scene direction: she comes up to her daughter.
joyce: in the car, now.
scene direction: buffy and willow exchange a concerned look. buffy starts to follow her mom out. she turns her head to look back at snyder, who's going around turning off the lights. joyce waits for buffy to join her, and they walk out of the room. snyder goes to another switch by the back wall next to a large window and turns it off. two vampires suddenly come crashing through the window. buffy looks back into the room. several more vampires follow, and they storm into the room. the people panic and begin to run around. buffy comes back into the room. the vampires have lined themselves up.
spike: what can i say? i couldn't wait.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the lounge. spike attacks. buffy grabs a chair and throws it at him, tripping him up. she runs back out of the room and grabs her mother's hand. she turns down the hall to the right, but more vampires come in that way, so she goes the other way. in the lounge spike grabs hold of a man.
spike: nobody gets out! especially the girl!
scene change: cut to the hall. another vampire is guarding an exit. buffy heads in another direction.
buffy: everybody, this way! c'mon! c'mon!
scene direction: snyder and several others run past her as she shoves a cleaning cart into the two vampires chasing them. willow and cordelia come running out of the lounge and nearly trip over them. they head to their right, but a vampire grabs cordelia and she screams. willow grabs a bust from a display pedestal and wields it back for a swing.
willow: hey!
scene direction: the vampire looks up and willow swings the bust hard into his face, knocking him off of cordelia. willow grabs her hand and pulls her into a closet.
scene change: cut to the hall outside the library. giles, jenny and xander come running out.
giles: what the hell...?!
scene direction: they see buffy's group running toward them.
buffy: spike and an army! look out!
scene direction: they look behind them and see a vampire. jenny screams.
giles: back!
scene direction: they run back into the library and hold the door shut as the vampire slams into it. buffy opens the door to the science classroom.
buffy: in here! now!
scene direction: the people all run into the room. buffy follows them in last and closes the door as the two vampires come running into the hall and begin banging on the door. cut inside the classroom. snyder and another man maneuver a storage cabinet in front of the door. buffy runs over to the other door and closes and locks it. the power goes out.
scene change: cut to the library. giles, jenny and xander look up from barricading the doors as the lights go off and the emergency lights come on.
scene change: cut to the hall outside the lounge. spike is still holding on to the man.
vampire#2: we cut the power. nobody got out.
spike: and the slayer?
vampire#2: she either went that way
scene direction: vampire#2 points to his right
vampire#2: or that way.
scene direction: vampire#2 points to his left
vampire#2: i saw two others.
spike: you don't know?!
scene direction: spike lets go of the man
spike: i'm a veal kind of guy. you're too old to eat.
scene direction: spike grabs his head and snaps his neck
spike: but not to kill.
scene direction: spike looks at vampire#2
spike: i feel better.
scene change: cut to the library. giles tries the phone, but it's dead.
giles: they've cut the phones.
scene direction: giles has an idea
giles: wait a minute. there's an old boarded up-cellar behind the stacks. you can get out that way.
scene direction: giles to xander
giles: find angel. he knows about spike. we need him.
xander: no, i'm not going anywhere until i know that buffy and willow are alright.
giles: no one will be alright unless we get some help!
scene change: xander gives in and goes. cut to the classroom.
man: who are those people, and what do they want?
joyce: i didn't get much of a look, but is there something wrong with their faces? i...
snyder: yes! pcp! it's a gang on pcp! we've gotta get out of here.
scene direction: he grabs a desk, sets it in front of a window and starts climbing.
buffy: you can't go outside! they'll kill you!
snyder: you don't tell me! i tell you!
scene direction: buffy pulls him down
buffy: they will kill everybody in this room. nobody goes out, nobody comes in until *i* say so. do you hear me?
snyder: who do you think you are?
buffy: i'm the one that knows how to stop them.
scene direction: she looks up and walks across the room, trying to find a way into the ceiling. joyce grabs her by the shoulders.
joyce: buffy, are you crazy? look, i know you've been accused of fighting and other things, but those guys are serious. you can't go out there.
buffy: i know. that's why i'm going up there.
scene direction: she grabs a stool, sets it on a lab table, climbs up and pushes a ceiling panel aside. she looks down at her mom.
buffy: don't worry, mom.
scene direction: she lifts herself up into the ceiling.
scene change: cut to the halls. spike is looking for buffy.
spike: slaaayer! here, kitty, kittyyy. i find one of your friends first, i'm gonna suck 'em dry. and use their bones to bash your head in.
scene direction: spike kicks a door open
scene direction: the camera closes on the closet where willow and cordelia are hiding.
scene direction: cut inside. cordelia is holding a broom for defense.
spike: are you getting a word picture here?
scene direction: cordelia whispers
cordelia: oh, god, oh, god!
scene change: willow clasps her hand around cordelia's mouth to keep her quiet. cut to the hall. spike is about to kick the closet door open when he's distracted.
vampire#2: spike! listen...
scene change: they listen and hear activity in the ceiling. cut to buffy crawling through the ceiling space. cut to the hall.
scene direction: spike sing-song
spike: someone's in the ceeeeeiling!
scene change: cut to the library. giles stuffs several stakes into his jacket pockets, grabs a battle-ax from the table and heads toward the door.
jenny: hey-hey-hey-hey! what are you doing?
scene direction: giles starts to push his way through the barricade they constructed.
jenny: there are at least three vampires in that hall! god only knows how many others in the building!
scene direction: giles looks at jenny
giles: listen! i am the watcher! i am responsible for her, and i have, i have to go!
scene direction: he starts pushing things aside again.
jenny: rupert!
scene direction: he looks back at her again.
jenny: be careful.
giles: push these back as soon as i...
scene direction: buffy breaks through the ceiling and drops to the floor. jenny steps back in surprise. giles lifts his ax.
giles: buffy!
scene direction: giles lowers the ax
giles: you're all right!
scene direction: buffy takes off her outer sweater.
jenny: how are the others?
buffy: principal snyder, my mother and four others are locked in the science room across the hall. willow and cordelia ran the other way.
scene direction: buffy puts on xander's bag
buffy: i don't know if they're... where's xander?
giles: he got out through the stacks. he's getting angel.
scene direction: jenny helps buffy put crosses and stakes into the bag.
buffy: good. okay, i'm gonna take the vamps out in the hall. after that you get my mother and the others out the same way.
giles: let me help you.
buffy: giles, my mother's in that room. if i don't make it out of here, i know you'll make sure she does.
giles: bloody right, i will. fair enough. what's your plan?
buffy: well, they split up to hold us here, so i'm gonna take 'em one on one. set 'em up and knock 'em down.
scene direction: she grabs a stool and positions it under the hole in the ceiling. she gets up on the stool and lifts herself back up.
giles: watch your back!
scene change: cut to the science classroom. snyder is pacing.
joyce: why don't you sit down?
snyder: this is my school. what i say goes, and i say this is *not*
scene direction: happening.
joyce: well, then i guess the danger's over!
man: i'm not waiting for them to open the doors. i'm gettin' out!
joyce: don't be an idiot!
snyder: i'm beginning to see a certain mother-daughter resemblance.
scene direction: the man climbs up to the window and lifts the sash.
joyce: no! look, you heard what buffy said!
snyder: she's a student. what does she know?
scene direction: he takes off his jacket and goes to help the man. the two of them begin bending back the metal slats blocking the window.
scene change: cut to the hall. a vampire throws himself against the science classroom door. it doesn't budge. he sees spike looking at him.
vampire: yeah. door's solid.
spike: use your head.
scene direction: he grabs the vampire by the shoulder and shoves his head into a fire emergency case containing an ax. he pulls the ax out, thrusts it into the vampire's hands and continues down the hall. he passes two others pounding on another door.
spike: you! come with me!
scene direction: one of the vampires follows him.
scene change: cut to the science classroom. the vampire begins swinging the ax at the door. joyce casts a worried look at snyder and the other man. they get two slats bent aside.
scene direction: snyder grunts
snyder: i did it!
scene direction: the man starts to pull himself through the opening. snyder helps, but lets go when the man begins to kick and scream while struggling with something outside. snyder watches as the man is pulled through the window and then steps down. joyce quickly climbs up, bends the slats back and closes the sash.
scene change: cut to the hall. spike is listening for activity in the ceiling. he pinpoints her sound. cut to the ceiling space. buffy is making her way through it.
scene direction: cut outside. the man lies dead on the grass. xander and angel see him.
xander: you know a lot about this spike guy, so, um... you got a plan?
scene direction: angel grabs xander by the throat.
xander: good plan.
scene direction: angel drags him into the building.
scene change: cut to the closet.
scene direction: cordelia whispers
cordelia: i think he's gone.
scene direction: cordelia reaches for the door
scene direction: willow whispers
willow: he could come back!
scene direction: cordelia looks at willow
cordelia: what are we gonna do?
willow: pray.
scene change: cut to the ceiling space. buffy keeps crawling. cut to the lounge. spike finds two metal poles and throws one to the other vampire as he goes back into the hall. he listens for a moment and then shoves the pole up into the ceiling. the other vampire follows suit. cut to the ceiling space. buffy sees a pole poke through right in front of her. she begins backing up.
scene change: cut to the hall. the vampire has almost chopped through the door to the science classroom. he steps around the corner to warn the other vampire.
vampire: hey! guard the door! i'm almost finished!
scene direction: he goes back to chopping when buffy breaks through the ceiling behind him. she pulls him down with her as she drops from the ceiling and quickly dispatches him with a stake. joyce is looking through the hole in the door, but can't see much of anything. buffy gets up and looks through the hole.
joyce: buffy! are you okay?
buffy: i'm fine, mom.
joyce: buffy, look, uh, get out of here, okay? we'll be alright!
buffy: look, just hang on for one more minute until i tell you to open the door.
scene direction: she quietly makes her way to the other hall, stake in hand. she peeks around the corner and see the other vampire standing there with his back to her. she hears a noise behind her and looks.
buffy: sheila! where've you been?
sheila: sorry i'm late. there's some really weird guys outside.
buffy: shh! yeah, i know. they're trying to kill us.
scene direction: sheila picks up the ax and smiles
sheila: this should be fun.
scene direction: buffy slowly heads back to the other hall.
scene change: cut to spike still poking the poles into the ceiling. angel comes into the hall with xander. spike sees him.
spike: angelus!
scene direction: angel wraps his arm around xander's neck.
angel: spike!
spike: i'll be damned!
scene direction: he tosses his pole aside and they greet each other with a hug and a laugh.
angel: i taught you to always guard your perimeter. tsk, tsk, tsk. you should have someone out there.
spike: i did. i'm surrounded by idiots. what's new with you?
angel: everything.
spike: yeah. come up against this slayer yet?
angel: she's cute. not too bright, though. gave the puppy dog 'i'm all tortured' act. keeps her off my back when i feed!
scene direction: angel laughs
scene direction: spike laughing
spike: people still fall for that anne rice routine. what a world!
xander: i knew you were lying.
scene direction: angel gives xander a squeeze to shut him up.
xander: undead liar guy.
scene direction: angel grabs him by the hair and shirt and holds up his exposed neck.
angel: wanna bite before we kill her?
scene change: cut to buffy. she and sheila are about to round the corner.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: stay behind me.
scene direction: she goes into the other hall and quietly makes her way to the vampire, holding her stake up and ready. behind her sheila vamps out and raises the ax.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the halls. sheila raises her ax. giles sees through the round library door window behind her and yells out a warning.
giles: buffy! look out!
scene direction: she spins around and grabs the ax from sheila in mid-swing. she swings it around and hits sheila in the jaw with the butt of the handle. the other vampire attacks and ducks as buffy swings the ax at him. the ax gets buried in the wall. the vampire smiles as he straightens back up, thinking he avoided her blow, but then looks down at the stake protruding from his chest. he collapses to the floor and bursts into ashes. buffy looks over at sheila and watches her run from the hall, then rushes back to the classroom door.
buffy: mom, now!
scene direction: joyce opens the door
joyce: okay, come on, let's go!
scene direction: everyone rushes out of the classroom and into the library.
joyce: c'mon! hurry!
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: get them out!
joyce: you're coming too!
buffy: in a minute! go!
scene direction: buffy rushes off
scene direction: joyce watching her go
joyce: buffy!
scene change: cut to spike and angel.
spike: i haven't seen you in the killing fields for an age.
angel: i'm not much for company.
spike: no, you never were. so, why're you so scared of this slayer?
angel: scared?
spike: yeah. time was you would've taken her out in a heartbeat. now look at you. i bet this, uh, tortured thing is an act, right? you're not... housebroken?
angel: i saw her kill the master. hey, you think you can take her alone? be my guest. i'll just feed and run.
scene direction: angel roars and bends to xander's neck
scene direction: spike holds up his hand
spike: don't be silly! we're all friends. we'll do it together. let's drink to it.
scene direction: they both slowly lean in to xander's neck. at the last moment spike punches angel in the face, making him stagger back.
spike: you think you can fool me?! you were my sire, man! you were my... yoda!
angel: things change.
spike: not us! not demons! man, i can't believe this. you uncle tom!
scene direction: spike grabs his pole from the floor
spike: come on, people! this isn't a spectator sport!
scene direction: the vampires roar and attack. xander barges out the door behind him and runs. angel follows as the other vampires give chase. spike senses someone behind him and looks up.
spike: fe, fi, fo fum. i smell the blood of a nice ripe
scene direction: spike turns to face buffy
spike: girl.
scene direction: buffy holding the ax
buffy: do we really need weapons for this?
spike: i just like them. they make me feel all manly.
scene direction: he drops the pole and slowly steps toward buffy. she drops the ax.
spike: the last slayer i killed... she begged for her life.
scene direction: buffy slowly walks to the middle of the hall, watching him intently.
spike: you don't strike me as the begging kind.
buffy: you shouldn'ta come here.
spike: no. i've messed up your doilies and stuff. but i just got so bored.
scene direction: spike smirks
spike: i'll tell you what. as a personal favor from me to you i'll make it quick. it won't hurt a bit.
buffy: no, spike. it's gonna hurt a lot.
scene change: they start to fight. cut outside. angel and xander fight the other vampires. cut to the hall. buffy and spike exchange several blows. he throws her into the wall. cut to the library. joyce is following everyone out through the stacks when she stops and wonders what happened to her daughter.
giles: come on, everyone. this way!
scene change: cut outside. xander avoids several punches and kicks. his own punch misses, and he gets kicked to the ground from behind. cut to the hall.
scene change: buffy and spike keep fighting. cut outside. a vampire has xander by the neck. angel punches her off of him. the others get up again and run from the fight. cut to the hall. buffy ducks a punch and lands four of her own in a row. spike grabs her arm and shoves her into the wall. she slides down it quickly, and spike's next punch goes through the wall.
scene direction: she gets behind him and kicks him high and hard in the neck.
spike: now, that hurt!
scene direction: he pulls his arm out of the wall, ripping a stud out with it, and swings it into buffy's face. she flies back and lands on the floor, stunned.
spike: but not as much as this will.
scene direction: he stands over her and wields back the stud to slam it into her, but he gets hit in the head with the ax. he goes sprawling to the floor and looks up at his attacker. joyce stands above him with the ax in her hands, ready to swing again.
joyce: you get the hell away from my daughter!
scene direction: spike holds the stud above himself to protect against any blows. buffy gets to her feet.
spike: women!
scene direction: he gets up and runs through the lounge and out the broken window.
scene direction: joyce exhales and drops the ax
joyce: nobody lays a hand on my little girl.
scene direction: they embrace. buffy looks out the window.
scene change: cut to later outside. the police are everywhere. the camera pans down to the police chief talking to an officer.
chief: take care of this.
scene direction: the officer nods and leaves. the chief walks over to his car. snyder comes up to him.
snyder: hello, bob.
chief: it's over. they all got away. i got a body inside, and i got another one on the south lawn. and it looks like he was pulled right through the window.
snyder: i told him not to go through that window.
scene change: cut to giles and jenny coming out of the building.
jenny: well, another wonderful fun-filled evening.
giles: uh, yes. you know, um, i will understand if you decide to start avoiding me.
scene direction: jenny takes giles' arm, and they walk off together.
scene change: cut to angel and xander.
xander: so, when you gave him my neck to chew on, why didn't you clock him before he had a chance to clock you?
angel: i told you. i couldn't make the first move. i had to see if he was buying it or not.
xander: a-and if he bit me, what then?
angel: we would've known he bought it.
scene direction: xander stops as angel continues on.
xander: hey, what's the deal with you being spike's sire? what's a sire?
scene change: cut to snyder and the chief.
chief: i need to say something to the media people.
snyder: so?
chief: so? you want the usual story? gang-related? pcp?
snyder: what'd you have in mind? the truth?
scene direction: chief considers
chief: right. gang-related. pcp.
scene change: cut to buffy and joyce.
buffy: so, what did you and principal snyder talk about anyway?
joyce: principal snyder said you were a troublemaker.
scene direction: buffy looks down in shame.
joyce: and i could care less.
scene direction: buffy looks back up.
joyce: i have a daughter who can take care of herself. who's brave and resourceful and thinks of others in a crisis. no matter who you hang out with or what dumb teenage stuff you think you need to do, i'm gonna sleep better knowing all that.
buffy: about how long till this wears off and you start ragging on me again?
joyce: oh, at least a week and a half.
buffy: very cool!
scene change: cut to later. the last police car leaves the school. cut to the hall.
scene direction: the camera pans over to the utility closet. cut inside. cordelia is kneeling in prayer. willow stares at her in disbelief.
cordelia: and if you get me out of this, i swear i'll never be mean to anyone ever again. unless they *really* deserve it. or if it's that time of the month, in which case i don't think you or anyone else can hold me responsible...
willow: ask for some aspirin.
cordelia: and can you please send some asp... hey!
scene change: cut to morning. the sun comes up over the complex where the vampires gather. the camera pans over to their warehouse. cut inside. sunlight is streaming through a high window. spike is standing by a cage. drusilla walks around the cage to him.
drusilla: spike, did she hurt you?
