scene direction: the bronze. the camera extends out from the catwalk, looking straight down onto the people below. they are dancing to the slow, sensual rhythm of "never an easy way" performed by morcheeba.
lyrics: think i slip the net / but i cut myself free cut to the crowd below. buffy and xander are dancing together, but not close, and exchange a few words as they move around. behind them cordelia and willow are sitting at a table and chatting.
lyrics: i'm not losing yet / so don't forget me / i'll say it, replay it...
scene direction: a man crosses in front of the camera, temporarily blocking the view, and when he's gone by angelus is standing beyond the table near the base of the stairs. he watches them dance. his voice narrates throughout the scene.
angelus: passion.
lyrics: ...and try tomorrow angelus: it lies in all of us.
lyrics: i'll say it, replay it...
angelus: sleeping...
lyrics: ...and live with sorrow angelus: ...waiting... and though unwanted...
lyrics: you'd think i'd learn by now angelus: ...unbidden... it will stir...
lyrics: there's never an easy way he begins to move around the room, all the while keeping his stare on buffy.
angelus: ...open its jaws, and howl.
lyrics: i'll get through somehow / i'm on my knees to pray cut outside to the alley. willow and buffy come walking out of the bronze. buffy has her arm hooked into willow's. cordelia and xander are behind them with their arms around each other.
lyrics: you'd think i'd learn by now / there's never an easy way they walk past a couple, apparently engaged in a kiss. the camera stops on the couple.
lyrics: i'll get through somehow...
scene direction: the man lifts his head from the woman, and it's angelus, just finishing a bite. he lets the woman's dead body fall to the pavement. he steps out into the alley, leaving the woman's body lying there, and watches the group as they walk away, completely unaware of his presence and his deed. he morphs into his human guise and begins to follow.
scene change: cut to a shot into buffy's room from outside of her window. buffy walks around her bed past the window. on her way back she pauses by the window and looks out. she lifts the blinds a little and scans around. seemingly satisfied that no one's there she walks back over to her closet, unzipping the back of her dress along the way.
scene change: cut to later inside her room. she's in her pajamas now. she sets her alarm and gets into bed. she reaches over to turn off her light and settles in to sleep. the camera closes in on her a little and turns to include the window in the shot. angelus is outside looking in.
scene change: cut to even later in her room. the camera closes in on a sleeping buffy.
scene direction: a shadow comes across her bed, and a hand reaches over to stroke her hair with its fingers. the camera pans over to the person, and it's angelus, sitting on the edge of her bed and looking down at her. he continues his narration as the camera pulls out for a shot of him sitting next to her while she sleeps.
angelus: it speaks to us... guides us... passion rules us all. and we obey. what other choice do we have?
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: morning in buffy's room. the camera pans from the foot of her bed up to her face. she stirs and wakes. she opens her eyes to look over at her clock, but they fix on an envelope left next to her on her pillow. she lets out an inquiring moan, pushes her hair back and picks up the envelope as she sits up. she looks down at it and sees that it's blank.
scene change: she opens it, takes out the paper inside, unfolds it and can only stare at it in disbelief. cut to a view of the sheet. on it is a pencil sketch of her sleeping.
buffy: he was in my room.
scene change: cut to the library. giles is behind the counter checking in various books. buffy walks past him toward the table as he looks up.
giles: who?
buffy: angel. he was in my room last night.
scene direction: he comes out from behind the counter and follows her over to the table.
scene direction: xander and cordelia are there also.
giles: are you sure?
buffy: positive. when i woke up, i found a picture he'd left me on my pillow.
scene direction: buffy crosses her arms
xander: a visit from the pointed-tooth fairy.
cordelia: wait, i thought vampires couldn't come in unless you invited them in.
giles: yes, but, uh, once you've invited them in, thereafter they're, they're always welcome.
scene direction: buffy looks down, then over at xander as he speaks.
xander: y'know, i think there may be a valuable lesson for you gals here about inviting strange men into your bedrooms.
scene direction: cordelia realizes
cordelia: oh, god!
scene direction: cordelia looks at xander
cordelia: i invited him in my car once.
scene direction: cordelia looks at giles
cordelia: that means he can come into my car whenever he wants.
xander: yep, you're doomed to havin'
scene direction: xander cordelia looks at him
xander: to give him and his vamp pals a lift whenever they feel like it. and those guys never chip in for gas.
scene direction: cordelia looks away, disgusted.
buffy: giles, there has to be some sort of spell to reverse the invitation, right? like a barrier, a no shoes, no pulse, no service kind of thing?
cordelia: yeah, that works for a car, too?
giles: yes, well, i-i-i could check on my...
scene direction: xander hops up from his chair
xander: hello!
scene direction: they all look behind them and see jonathon and a girl come into the library.
xander: excuse me, but have you ever heard of knocking?
scene direction: jonathon gestures to the library before him
jonathon: we're supposed to get some books. on stalin.
scene direction: jonathon nods
scene direction: xander points at jonathon
xander: does this look like a barnes & noble?
giles: this is a school library, xander.
xander: since when?
scene direction: giles to jonathon
giles: uh, y-yes, yes, uh, third row.
scene direction: giles gestures to the stacks
giles: historical biographies.
jonathon: thanks.
scene direction: he and the girl walk past them, up the stairs and into the stacks. the others watch them go until they disappear. xander points out of the library. he and cordelia pick up their things and start out. giles looks at buffy, confused, but follows.
giles: what...
scene direction: giles gets a look from buffy
giles: oh!
scene direction: jonathon comes back out of the stacks.
jonathon: hey, did you say that was the...
scene direction: jonathon sees they're gone
jonathon: hello?
scene change: cut to the hall. xander and cordelia lead giles and buffy as they walk along.
giles: so angel has decided to step up his harassment of you?
cordelia: by sneaking in her room and leaving stuff at night? why doesn't he just slit her throat or strangle her while she's sleeping or cut her heart out?
scene direction: cordelia gets looks from everyone
cordelia: what? i'm trying to help.
scene direction: they've left the hall and walk along the colonnade.
giles: yes.
scene direction: giles to buffy
giles: uh, uh, look, it's-it's classic battle strategy to throw one's opponent off his game. he-he-he's just trying to provoke you. uh, to taunt you, to, to goad you into, uh, some mishap of some sort.
scene direction: xander looks back at giles
xander: the
scene direction: xander sing-song
xander: nah-nah-nah-nah-nah-nah approach to battle?
giles: yes, xander, once more you've managed to boil a complex thought down to its simplest possible form.
scene direction: giles xander smiles
buffy: giles, angel once told me that when he was obsessed with drusilla, the first thing h-he did was to kill her family.
scene direction: xander stops and looks at her
xander: your mom.
buffy: i know. i'm gonna have to tell her something.
scene direction: buffy sits on a wall and looks at giles
buffy: the truth?
scene direction: giles approaches her, waving his finger
giles: no. you-you-you-you can't do that.
xander: yeah. the more people who know the secret, the more it cheapens it for the rest of us.
buffy: but i've gotta tell her something. i've gotta do something. giles, angel has an all-access pass to my house, and i'm not always there when my mother is. i can't protect her.
scene direction: giles flustered
giles: i told you i will find a-a spell.
buffy: what about *until* you find a spell?
cordelia: until then, you and your mother are welcome to ride around with me in my car.
giles: buffy, i-i understand your concern, but it's imperative that you keep a level head through all this.
buffy: that's easy for you to say. you don't have angel lurking in your bedroom at night.
giles: i know how hard this is for you.
scene direction: giles gets a look from buffy
giles: all right, i don't. but as the slayer, you don't have the luxury of being a slave to your, your passions. you mustn't let angel get to you. no matter how provocative his behavior may become.
buffy: so what you're basically saying is, 'just ignore him, and maybe he'll go away'?
scene direction: giles exhales
giles: yes. precisely.
xander: hey, how come buffy doesn't get a snotty 'once again you boil it down to the simplest form' thing?
scene direction: giles and buffy both look over at him. he looks her up and down.
xander: watcher's pet.
scene change: cut to jenny's computer science class.
jenny: don't forget, i need your sample spreadsheets by the end of the week.
scene direction: the bell rings, and she walks around behind her desk.
jenny: oh, and i want both a paper printout and a copy on disk. thank you.
scene direction: she looks down at her desk for a second, then back up and reaches her arm out to get willow's attention before she goes.
jenny: willow.
scene direction: willow approaches the desk
willow: yes?
jenny: um, i might be a little late tomorrow. do you think you could cover my class till i show?
scene direction: willow smiling brightly
willow: really? me? teach the class? sure!
jenny: cool.
scene direction: willow suddenly worried
willow: oh, wait. w-what if they don't recognize my authority? what if they try to convince me that you always let them leave class early? what if there's a fire drill? what if there's a fire?
scene direction: jenny reassuringly
jenny: willow, you're gonna be fine. and i'll try not to be too late, okay?
scene direction: willow calmer
willow: okay. good. earlier is good.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: will i have the power to assign detention? or make 'em run laps?
scene direction: buffy and giles appear at the door.
buffy: hey, will.
scene direction: jenny and willow look over at her.
jenny: hi, buffy. rupert.
scene direction: giles looks down.
scene direction: buffy ignoring jenny
buffy: willow, i thought i might take in a class. figured i could use someone who knows where they are.
scene direction: willow glances over at jenny with her eyes and then starts to walk out of the classroom.
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: sorry. i have to talk to her. she's a teacher, and teachers are to be respected,
scene direction: willow they exit the room
willow: even if they're only filling in until the real teacher shows up, because otherwise chaos could ensue...
scene direction: giles has let the girls go, and now steps into the classroom. his hands are in his pockets.
jenny: how have you been?
giles: uh, not so good, actually. uh, since angel lost his soul, he's regained his sense of whimsy.
jenny: well, that sounds bad.
scene direction: jenny crosses her arms
giles: he's been in buffy's bedroom. i-i-i need to drum up a spell to, uh, keep him out of the house.
scene direction: she reaches down to her desk and picks up an old book.
jenny: this might help.
scene direction: jenny hands it to giles
jenny: i've been doing a little reading since angel changed.
scene direction: jenny crosses her arms again
jenny: i don't think you have that one.
giles: thank you.
scene direction: giles leafs through it
jenny: so, how's buffy doing?
scene direction: giles closes and lowers the book
giles: how do you think?
scene direction: jenny faces away
jenny: i know you feel betrayed.
giles: yes. well, that's one of the unpleasant side effects of betrayal.
scene direction: jenny looks down at her desk
jenny: rupert... i was raised by the people that angel hurt the most.
scene direction: jenny looks up at giles
jenny: my duty to them was the first thing i was ever taught. i didn't come here to hurt anyone,
scene direction: jenny looks away
jenny: a-and i lied to you because i thought it was the right thing to do. i... i didn't know what would happen. i didn't know i was gonna fall in love with you.
scene direction: she pauses for a moment before looking back up at giles. they exchange a meaningful look, but then she looks away again.
jenny: oh, god. is it too late to take that back?
giles: do you want to?
scene direction: jenny looks at him
jenny: i just wanna be right with you. i don't expect more. i just want so badly to make all this up to you.
giles: i understand. but i'm not the one you need to make it up to.
scene direction: she looks at him, understanding. he gives her a little smile and raises the book.
giles: thank you for the book.
scene direction: he turns and walks out of the room. she just watches him go.
scene change: cut to the dining room at buffy's house. she and joyce are having dinner. buffy is just picking at her food. joyce puts down her fork, folds her hands and leans forward on the table toward her daughter.
joyce: okay. what's wrong?
scene direction: buffy looks at her mom
buffy: it's nothing.
scene direction: buffy looks at her plate
joyce: come on. you can tell me anything.
scene direction: joyce buffy eyes her
joyce: i've read all the parenting books. you cannot surprise me.
scene direction: buffy puts down her fork, puts her hands in her lap and looks over at her mother.
buffy: do you remember that guy angel?
joyce: angel, the, um...
scene direction: joyce thinks
joyce: the college boy who was tutoring you in history?
buffy: right. uh, he... i-i...
scene direction: buffy looks down and whispers
buffy: oh, god. um...
scene direction: buffy looks back up
buffy: we're sort of dating, *were* dating, um, going through a serious off-again phase right now.
scene direction: joyce smiles
joyce: don't tell me. he's changed. he's not the same guy you fell for?
scene direction: buffy smiles nervously
buffy: in a nutshell.
scene direction: buffy loses the smile
buffy: a-anyway, um... since he changed, he's been kinda following me around. he's having trouble letting go.
scene direction: joyce concerned
joyce: buffy, has he done anything...
buffy: no! no, it's not like that. he's just been hanging around... a lot. just sending me notes, that kind of thing.
scene direction: buffy gets a concerned look from joyce
buffy: i just don't wanna see him right now. i mean, if he shows up, i'll talk to him. just... don't invite him in.
scene change: cut to willow's room. she's in her pajamas, walking around with her cordless phone to her ear.
willow: i agree with giles. you need to just try and not let him get to you.
scene direction: willow heads for her desk
willow: angel's only doing this to try to get you to do something stupid.
scene direction: willow closes her laptop
willow: i swear, men can be such jerks sometimes. dead or alive.
scene direction: willow goes to her new aquarium
buffy: i just hope giles can find a keep-out spell soon.
scene change: cut to buffy sitting on her bed, also in pajamas, talking into her phone.
buffy: i know i'll sleep easier when i can... sleep easier.
scene change: cut to willow sprinkling fish food into her tank.
willow: i'm sure he will. he's like book-man.
scene direction: willow puts away the food
scene direction: until then, try and keep happy thoughts and...
scene change: she sees something on her bed. cut to buffy.
buffy: and what?
scene change: cut to willow.
buffy: willow?
scene direction: willow holds the phone between her cheek and shoulder and reaches down for a blank envelope on her bed.
buffy: willow?
scene direction: willow turns back toward her aquarium. the camera follows her and pans around the tank for a shot of her through the fishless water. she opens the envelope and finds a string. she pulls on it, and out come her fish, strung together one after the other. willow loses her grip on her phone and it falls to the floor.
scene change: cut to later in buffy's room. she and willow are sitting on her bed.
scene direction: behind them is a string of garlic cloves hanging on the wall. willow has a stake in her hand that she's fidgeting with nervously while she looks around.
willow: thanks for having me over, buffy. especially on a school night and all.
buffy: no problem. hey, sorry about your fish.
willow: oh, it's okay. we hadn't really had time to bond yet. although for the first time i'm glad my parents didn't let me have a puppy.
scene direction: buffy stares into space
buffy: it's so weird... every time something like this happens, my first instinct is still to run to angel. i can't believe it's the same person. he's completely different from the guy that i knew.
scene direction: buffy looks at willow
willow: well, sort of, except...
buffy: except what?
scene direction: willow looks at buffy
willow: you're still the only thing he thinks about.
scene direction: buffy looks down at her hands.
scene change: cut to spike's warehouse. he's in his wheelchair in the foreground at the head of the table. drusilla comes in behind him, holding a puppy behind her back.
drusilla: i brought something for you.
scene direction: drusilla brings out the whining puppy
drusilla: poor thing. she's an orphan.
scene direction: drusilla reaches spike
drusilla: her owner died...
scene direction: drusilla smiles at him
drusilla: without a fight. do you like her?
scene direction: drusilla he looks at her
drusilla: hmm?
scene direction: (reaches her hand into his jacket and rubs his chest) i brought her especially for you... (pulls at his jacket) to cheer you up. (raises the puppy) and i've named her... (sweetly) sunshine! (offers the puppy to spike) open wide. (he looks away) come on, love. you need to eat something to keep your strength up. now, (waves the puppy around) rrrrr, open up for mummy.
spike: i won't have you feeding me like a child, dru.
scene direction: spike wheels around the table
scene direction: angelus comes in
angelus: why not? she already bathes you, carries you around and changes you like a child.
drusilla: why, angel.
scene direction: drusilla he smiles at her
drusilla: where have you been? the sun is almost up, and it can be so hurtful.
scene direction: drusilla looks at spike
drusilla: we were worried.
spike: no, we weren't.
drusilla: you must forgive spike. he's just a bit testy tonight.
scene direction: doesn't get out much anymore.
angelus: well, maybe next time i'll bring you with me, spike. might be handy to have you around if i ever need a really good parking space.
spike: have you forgotten that you're a bloody guest in my bloody home?
scene direction: angelus steps closer
angelus: and as a guest,
scene direction: angelus leans in
angelus: if there's anything i can do for you... any... responsibility i can assume while you're spinning your wheels...
scene direction: angelus looks over at drusilla
angelus: anything i'm not already doing, that is.
scene direction: spike shoves angelus away angrily
spike: that's enough!
scene direction: angelus smiles widely and giggles.
drusilla: aww...
scene direction: she leans down to spike, gives him a peck on the cheek and puts the puppy in his lap. he holds the puppy as she steps away and goes around the table.
drusilla: you two boys... fightin' over me and all.
scene direction: drusilla stops between two chairs
drusilla: makes a girl feel...
scene direction: suddenly she looks up and moans loudly in apparent pain. angelus steps over opposite her across the table, looking concerned.
spike: dru, what is it, pet?
scene direction: drusilla bent over in pain, breathing hard
drusilla: the air. it worries.
scene direction: someone... an old enemy is seeking help... (angelus throws spike a look)
scene direction: help to destroy our happy home. (leans against a chair) ohhhh...
scene change: cut to a tarot shop. the camera pans across a display table with a skull in a covered glass bowl, a small gong hung between two horns, a pig fetus in formaldehyde, what looks like a large crab also in formaldehyde and another jar. a pricing gun waves into view and puts prices on the last two jars. the shopkeeper continues on to price other things.
scene direction: cut outside. jenny walks around the railing in front of the shop and takes the steps down to the entrance. cut inside the shop. she comes in the door and looks around. the shopkeeper looks up from his work.
scene direction: shopkeeper with a rumanian accent
shopkeeper: welcome. how may i serve you today?
scene direction: jenny faces him
jenny: uh...
shopkeeper: love potion? perhaps a voodoo doll for that unfaithful...
scene direction: jenny interrupts
jenny: i need an orb of thesulah.
scene direction: shopkeeper drops the accent
shopkeeper: oh, you're in the trade. sorry about the spiel, but around valentine's day, i get a lot of tourists shopping for love potions and mystical revenge of past lovers.
scene direction: shopkeeper goes behind the sales counter
shopkeeper: sad fact is, ouija boards and rabbits' feet, that's what pay the rent around here.
scene direction: shopkeeper goes into the back
shopkeeper: so how did you hear about us?
scene direction: jenny checks out a few things
jenny: my uncle enyos told me about you.
scene direction: shopkeeper looks out at her
shopkeeper: so you're janna, then.
scene direction: shopkeeper she looks at him
shopkeeper: sorry to hear about your uncle.
jenny: thank you.
scene direction: shopkeeper comes back with a round wooden box
shopkeeper: he was a good customer. well, no, there you go.
scene direction: shopkeeper sets it down and opens it
shopkeeper: one thesulan orb. spirit vault for the rituals of the undead.
scene direction: shopkeeper jenny reaches into her purse
shopkeeper: i don't get many calls for those lately.
scene direction: shopkeeper she pulls out her wallet
shopkeeper: sold a couple as new age paperweights last year.
scene direction: shopkeeper she hands him a credit card
shopkeeper: yeah, i just love those new-agers, boy. they helped to
scene direction: shopkeeper imprints the card
shopkeeper: send my youngest to college.
scene direction: shopkeeper fills in the form
shopkeeper: by the way, you do know that the transliteration annals for the ritual of the undead were lost.
scene direction: shopkeeper hands her the form and a pen
shopkeeper: without the annals, the surviving text is gibberish.
jenny: and without a translated text, the orbs of thesulah are pretty much useless.
scene direction: jenny signs
jenny: yeah, i know.
scene direction: jenny hands him his copy
shopkeeper: well, i only mention it because i have a strict policy of no refunds.
scene direction: shopkeeper puts the lid on the box
jenny: it's okay. i'm working on a computer program to translate the rumanian liturgy to english based on a random sampling of the text.
shopkeeper: yecchh. i don't like computers. they give me the willies.
jenny: well,
scene direction: jenny takes the box
jenny: thank you.
shopkeeper: you're welcome.
scene direction: she takes the lid off of the box as she slowly walks toward the door.
shopkeeper: by the way...
scene direction: shopkeeper she looks back
shopkeeper: not that it's any of my business, really, but, uh, what are you planning on conjuring up? if you can decipher the text?
jenny: a present for a friend of mine.
scene direction: jenny lifts the orb
shopkeeper: really? what are you gonna give him?
scene direction: she looks into the orb and it begins to glow.
jenny: his soul.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: sunnydale high school. willow and buffy are chatting as they walk along the sidewalk and then up the steps.
buffy: we'll be in hiding, probably...
scene direction: buffy inaudible
scene direction: willow inaudible
buffy: siberia.
scene direction: xander jumps up behind them
xander: well, good morning, ladies. and what did you two do last night?
willow: we had kind of a 'pajama party sleepover with weapons' thing.
xander: oh. and i don't suppose either of you had the presence of mind to locate a camera to capture the moment.
willow: i have to go. i have a class to teach in about five minutes, and i have to arrive early to glare disapprovingly at the stragglers.
scene direction: willow sees jenny arriving
willow: oh, darn. she's here.
scene direction: willow walks off
willow: five hours of lesson planning yesterday down the drain...
scene direction: buffy sees jenny, too
buffy: you know what? i'll see you in class.
scene direction: she leaves xander, jogs up to jenny and gets in front of her.
buffy: hey.
jenny: hi.
scene direction: buffy looks at jenny a moment, then averts her eyes.
jenny: uh, is there something that... did you want something?
buffy: look... i know you feel badly about what happened, and i just wanted to say...
scene direction: jenny looks at her expectantly.
buffy: good. keep it up.
scene direction: jenny not surprised
jenny: don't worry, i will.
scene direction: buffy holds up her hand
buffy: oh, wait. um...
scene direction: buffy looks at her
buffy: he misses you. he doesn't say anything, i mean, but i know he does. and i don't want him to be lonely. i don't want anyone to.
jenny: buffy, you know that if i have a chance to make this up...
scene direction: buffy interrupts
buffy: we're... good here. let's just leave it.
scene direction: she walks away. jenny watches her go.
scene change: cut to the lounge. giles is talking with a couple of students while searching through his briefcase for some flyers.
giles: i put it here somewhere.
scene direction: giles finds the flyers
giles: oh, yes, yes.
scene direction: that's it. (hands the flyers to the students) could you, um, hang those up? (the students nod) thank you. (sees buffy arrive) buffy. so, uh, so how was your night?
buffy: sleepless, but no human fatalities.
scene direction: cordelia comes up to them.
giles: i-i found a ritual to revoke the invitation to vampires.
cordelia: oh, thank goodness. i actually had to talk my grandmother into switching cars with me last night.
giles: um, the-the-the, uh, the ritual's fairly basic, actually. it's just the recitation of a few rhyming couplets, burning of, uh, moss herbs, sprinkling of holy water...
scene direction: giles turns down the hall
scene direction: buffy starts to follow
buffy: all stuff i have in my house.
giles: hanging of crosses...
scene change: cut to willow's room. she nails a cross next to her french doors and pulls the curtain over to hide it.
willow: i'm gonna have a hard time explaining this to my dad.
buffy: you really think it'll bother him?
willow: ira rosenberg's only daughter nailing crucifixes to her bedroom wall? i have to go over to xander's house just to watch 'a charlie brown christmas' every year.
buffy: i see your point.
scene direction: they go to her bed. cordelia is looking at willow's aquarium.
willow: although it is worthwhile to see him do the snoopy dance.
scene direction: willow puts down the hammer
cordelia: willow,
scene direction: cordelia faces them, arms crossed
cordelia: are you aware that there are no fish in your aquarium?
scene direction: willow frowns and whines.
buffy: you know, cordelia, we've already done your car. call it a night if you want.
cordelia: right. thanks. and you know i'd do the same for you if you had a social life.
scene direction: she picks her coat up from willow's bed and sees a blank envelope there.
cordelia: oh.
scene direction: cordelia picks it up
cordelia: this must be for you.
scene direction: she hands the envelope to willow. willow gives buffy a worried glance and opens it. when she sees what's in it she hands it to buffy.
willow: it's for you.
scene direction: buffy unfolds the paper and sees a pencil sketch of her mother sleeping.
buffy: mom.
scene change: cut to joyce driving home in her jeep. cut to a view of her from the lawn nearing the house. as she turns into the driveway the camera pulls back, and angelus' legs come into view. joyce sees him as she pulls to a stop and turns off the engine. he approaches her open car window.
angelus: mrs. summers, i need to talk to you.
scene direction: joyce gets out with a bag of groceries
joyce: you're angel.
scene direction: angelus pushes the door closed
angelus: did buffy tell you about us?
joyce: she told me she wants you to leave her alone.
angelus: i-i can't. i can't do that.
joyce: you're scaring her.
angelus: you have to help me.
scene direction: angelus she starts toward the house
angelus: joyce...
scene direction: angelus follows her
angelus: i need, i need to be with her. y-you can convince her. you have to convince her.
joyce: look,
scene direction: joyce angelus gets in front of her
joyce: i'm telling you to leave her alone.
angelus: you have to talk to her for me, joyce. tell her i need her.
scene direction: joyce goes around him
joyce: please, look, i-i just wanna get inside, okay?
scene direction: she lets go of her bag with one hand and rummages in her purse for her keys, but she can't keep her grip on the bag, and it falls. several oranges roll out and around. angelus rights the bag and scrambles to pick a few of the oranges up.
angelus: you don't understand, joyce.
scene direction: angelus she finds her keys
angelus: i'll die without buffy. she'll die without me.
joyce: are you threatening her?
angelus: please... why is she doing this to me?
joyce: i'm calling the police now.
scene direction: she forgets the grocery bag and goes to the door. there she fumbles with her keys, trying to find the right one. angelus comes up next to her.
scene direction: she finally gets the key in the door.
angelus: i haven't been able to sleep since the night we made love.
scene direction: joyce looks up at him in surprise.
angelus: i need her. i know you understand.
scene direction: joyce opens the door
joyce: just leave us alone.
scene direction: joyce rushes in
scene direction: cut inside. he tries to follow, but comes up against an invisible barrier. buffy and willow come down the stairs. willow reads a latin verse from a book.
willow: 'hicce verbis consensus rescissus est.' translation: by these strong unanimous words angelus' permission to enter is rescinded.
scene direction: buffy comes up to him
buffy: sorry, angel. changed the locks.
scene direction: buffy slams the door in his face
scene change: cut to jenny's classroom. she's at her desk working on the translation program. she takes a sip of coffee from her mug and sets it back down.
scene direction: she types a few keystrokes, then stares at the screen. behind her giles appears and stands in the doorway.
giles: hello.
scene direction: she startles and looks at him. quickly she types a few keystrokes, and the screen changes. she turns back to him.
jenny: oh! hi.
scene direction: giles steps into the room
giles: you're working late.
jenny: special project.
giles: oh.
jenny: i spoke to buffy today.
giles: oh! yes?
scene direction: giles sits on her desk
jenny: mm.
scene direction: jenny looks away
jenny: she said you missed me.
scene direction: jenny plays with a pencil
giles: well, uh, she's... a meddlesome girl.
scene direction: jenny looks at him
jenny: rupert... okay, i don't wanna say anything if i'm wrong, but i may have some news. now, i need to finish up here. could i see you later?
giles: y-yes, yes. you could stop by my house.
jenny: okay.
scene direction: jenny smiles
scene direction: giles smiles and gets up
giles: good.
scene direction: giles smiles wider, then goes
scene direction: jenny turns her attention back to her computer.
scene change: cut to the tarot shop. the shopkeeper turns out the light by the front entrance and heads toward the back. a woman holding a puppy opens the door and steps in.
shopkeeper: sorry, honey.
scene direction: shopkeeper blows out some candles
shopkeeper: we're closed.
scene direction: he looks up and sees drusilla standing there.
scene direction: shopkeeper nervous
shopkeeper: w... what do you want?
scene direction: drusilla looks at the puppy
drusilla: miss sunshine here tells me you had a visit today.
scene direction: drusilla stares up
drusilla: but she worries.
scene direction: drusilla looks at the shopkeeper
drusilla: she wants to know what you and the mean teacher talked about.
scene change: cut to later in jenny's classroom. she's still working at her computer.
scene direction: she taps a few keys, then looks up at the screen. a percent complete window appears over the rumanian text, and the bar zips across it.
jenny: come on, come on...
scene direction: the bar disappears, and a translation scrolls up next to the original text.
jenny: that's it!
scene direction: jenny exhales and smiles
jenny: it's gonna work!
scene direction: jenny saves the result
jenny: this... will work.
scene direction: she pops out an unlabeled yellow floppy disk and sets it aside by some books near the edge of her desk. in the mean time a hardcopy has started to print out. she wheels her chair over to the printer and looks it over. she looks up and sees angelus sitting in a desk at the back of the class. she gasps and jumps out of her seat.
jenny: angel...
scene direction: jenny slowly moves toward the door
jenny: how did you get in here?
angelus: i was invited. the sign in front of the school... 'formatia trans sicere educatorum.' jenny: 'enter all ye who seek knowledge.' angelus:
scene direction: angelus giggles and gets up
angelus: what can i say? i'm a knowledge seeker.
scene direction: angelus comes toward her
scene direction: jenny frightened
jenny: angel, i-i-i've got good news.
angelus: i heard. you went shopping at the local boogedy-boogedy store.
scene direction: angelus sees the orb on her desk and picks it up
angelus: the orb of thesulah. if memory serves, this is supposed to summon a person's soul... from the ether... store it until it can be transferred.
scene direction: the orb begins to glow as he looks into it. he glances up at jenny for an instant. she edges away from him.
angelus: you know what i hate most about these things?
scene direction: jenny screams as he heaves it into the chalkboard behind her. it shatters into hundreds of pieces and a lot of dust.
scene direction: angelus smiles
angelus: they're so damn fragile.
scene direction: angelus loses the smile
angelus: must be that shoddy gypsy craftsmanship, huh?
scene direction: jenny has backed into the wall and trembles with fear. she starts to inch her way toward the door. angelus reaches over to the pc and turns the monitor so he can see it.
angelus: i never cease to be amazed how much the world has changed in just two and a half centuries.
scene direction: jenny has reached the door and tries to open it. it's locked. he turns the monitor back around.
angelus: it's a miracle to me. you, you put the secrets to restoring my soul in here...
scene direction: he shoves the computer off her of desk and onto the floor. it breaks, and the monitor shatters and sparks and starts to burn. angelus tears the printout from the printer.
angelus: it comes out here.
scene direction: angelus looks at the paper
angelus: 'the ritual of restoration.' wow. this, this brings back memories.
scene direction: he starts to tear the printout in half.
jenny: wait. that's your...
angelus: oh, my cure?
scene direction: angelus finishes tearing
angelus: no, thanks. been there, done that, and deja vu just isn't what it used to be.
scene direction: angelus sees the fire
angelus: my... isn't this my lucky day. the computer...
scene direction: angelus holds the paper over the flames
angelus: and the pages.
scene direction: angelus warms his hands
angelus: looks like i get to kill two birds with one stone.
scene direction: he crouches over the fire to warm himself more. jenny starts toward the back door. angelus looks back up at her sporting his game face.
angelus: and teacher makes three.
scene direction: she starts to run for it, but angelus roars and quickly jumps and grabs hold of her.
jenny: no!
scene direction: he throws her back into the locked door, and it breaks open. she looks back at him, scrambles to her feet and begins to run.
angelus: oh, good. i need to work up an appetite first.
scene change: cut to the halls. jenny comes running, opens the door to the lounge area and runs to another set of door to outside, but they are locked. she runs back into the lounge, sees angelus coming and runs further down the hall. angelus pulls open the doors and follows her at a fast walk.
scene direction: cut outside to another hall exit. jenny bursts through the door and runs along the colonnade. angelus is not far behind, and continues after her at a quick pace. soon he starts to run as well. jenny keeps running, checking behind her every so often. she reaches the next building and struggles with the door. she looks back and sees angelus running toward her with an evil grin on his face. she yanks hard at the door several more times before it opens, and she runs in.
scene direction: cut inside the hall. jenny pulls the door closed behind her and angelus slams into it. she starts to run down the hall. angelus has to yank at the door a couple of times before it opens for him, too, and he runs in after her. a cleaning cart is in the hall by the stairs, and jenny grabs it and pushes it into angelus. he slams into it and flies over it and onto the floor while she rushes up the steps.
scene change: cut to a view down the stairs from above. jenny runs up and out of view.
scene direction: angelus isn't on the floor below anymore. he's nowhere to be seen.
scene change: cut to a landing by a large arched window. jenny runs up onto it and right into a waiting angelus. she screams when he grabs hold of her. he chuckles and looks into her face. he puts one hand around behind her head and touches her lips with the fingers of his other. the view out of the window is of the park beyond with the palm trees lit up. a car drives by.
angelus: sorry, jenny, this is where you get off.
scene direction: he takes his fingers from her lips and puts his hand under her chin. in one swift movement he twists her head and snaps her neck. her body collapses to the floor. he looks up and around, breathing heavily from the running and the excitement.
angelus: ah... i never get tired of doing that.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: buffy's house. giles steps up to the door and knocks. willow comes to the door and opens it.
giles: willow, good evening.
scene direction: giles steps in
willow: hi. come on in.
scene direction: willow closes the door, hands him the book
willow: here's the book.
giles: right.
scene direction: giles looks the book over
giles: i guess i should do my apartment tonight.
scene direction: giles looks up
giles: the ritual go all right?
willow: oh, yeah. it went fine. well, it went fine until angel showed up and told buffy's mom that he and buffy had...
scene direction: willow nervously
willow: well, you know, that they had... you know. you do know, right?
giles: oh, yes. yes. sorry.
scene direction: willow relieved
willow: oh, good, 'cause i just realized that being a librarian and all, you maybe didn't know.
giles: oh, thank you. i got it.
willow: you would have been proud of her, though. she totally kept her cool.
scene direction: willow smiles
scene direction: there is an awkward moment of silence.
willow: okay, well, i'll tell buffy you stopped by.
scene direction: willow smiles
scene direction: giles looks up the stairs
giles: would you, um... perhaps i should intervene on, on buffy's behalf w-w-with her mother. um, maybe... say something?
willow: sure! like, what would you say?
scene direction: giles looks up the stairs again
giles: w... uh...
scene direction: she reaches for the doorknob and opens it.
giles: you will tell buffy i dropped by?
scene direction: giles goes out
willow: you bet.
scene direction: willow closes the door
scene change: cut to buffy's room. she's sitting on her bed. joyce is pacing, trying to take in what she's hearing.
buffy: that stuff with the latins and the herbs, uh, he's just real superstitious.
scene direction: joyce sits with her eyes closed
joyce: oh.
buffy: we just thought if...
joyce: was he the first?
scene direction: joyce opens her eyes
joyce: no, wait.
scene direction: joyce stands up
joyce: i don't wanna know.
scene direction: joyce paces
joyce: i don't think i want to.
buffy: yeah. he was the first. i mean, the only.
scene direction: joyce stops and looks at her daughter
joyce: he's older than you.
buffy: i know.
joyce: too old, buffy. and he's obviously not very stable. i really wish...
scene direction: joyce sits again
joyce: i just thought you would show more judgment.
scene direction: buffy looks at her mother
buffy: he wasn't like this before.
joyce: are you in love with him?
buffy: i was.
joyce: were you careful?
scene direction: buffy looks away
buffy: mom, this is no time...
scene direction: joyce gets up again
joyce: don't 'mom' me, buffy. you don't get to get out of this. you had sex with a boy you *didn't* even see fit to tell me you were dating.
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: i made a mistake.
joyce: yeah, well, don't just say that to shut me up, because i think you really did.
buffy: i know that!
scene direction: buffy looks up at her
buffy: i-i can't tell you everything.
joyce: how about anything? buffy, you can shut me out of your life, i am pretty much used to that. but don't expect me to ever stop caring about you, because it's never gonna happen. i love you more than anything in the world.
scene direction: joyce sits next to buffy on the bed
joyce: that would be your cue to, uh, roll your eyes and tell me i'm grossing you out.
buffy: you're not.
scene direction: joyce inhales
joyce: oh, well...
scene direction: joyce exhales
joyce: i guess that was the talk.
buffy: so how'd it go?
scene direction: they look at each other.
joyce: i don't know. it was my first.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he arrives at his door looking at his keys. he looks up and sees a red rose on the door and can hear the music of the opera "la boheme", by puccini, coming from inside. he takes the rose, inhales its aroma and smiles. he opens his door and goes in. cut inside.
scene direction: giles pokes his head in.
giles: hello?
scene direction: he sees no one there, so he steps in and closes the door behind him.
giles: jenny?
scene direction: he puts his briefcase aside and steps over to his coat rack.
giles: it's me!
scene direction: he takes off his coat and hangs it up. he looks around again and sees a chilled bottle of champagne and two long-stemmed glasses on his desk. on top of the crystal ice bucket is a folded piece of paper leaning against the bottle. he sets down his keys and the rose and takes the note. he unfolds it and on it is one word - upstairs. he smiles and looks up toward the loft. he takes off his glasses and sets them and the paper down. he runs his fingers through his hair, takes the bottle, looks at it, takes the two glasses and starts up the stairs. the opera music gets louder as he nears the loft. the camera follows his footsteps as he climbs the stairs. there is a rose on each step. when he reaches the top he is smiling. he sees jenny on the bed, but she isn't moving, and his smile quickly fades. the opera reaches a crescendo as he drops the bottle and glasses, and they shatter on the floor. he continues to look at jenny's body. her dead eyes stare back at him.
scene change: cut to later. giles is leaning on the wall by his front door staring blankly into space. the coroners take jenny's body away. a police officer approaches him.
officer: mr. giles, i need to ask you to come with us. just to answer a few questions.
scene direction: giles still staring blankly
giles: of course. yes. procedure.
scene direction: giles looks at the officer
giles: i need to make a phone call... if that's all right.
scene direction: the officer looks over at the phone and back at him, giving him tacit permission.
scene direction: giles whispers
giles: yes.
scene direction: giles goes to the phone
scene change: cut to buffy's house. angelus is looking into the dining room through the window from the porch. buffy and willow walk through it and into the living room.
scene direction: angelus narrates
angelus: passion is the source of our finest moments. the joy of love... the clarity of hatred... and the ecstasy of grief.
scene direction: the telephone rings, and buffy runs back into the dining room to get it.
scene direction: she picks it up from the phone stand and turns so angelus can see her face.
buffy: hello. giles, hey! we did the, the thing. it worked. what?
scene direction: as she listens to giles her expression becomes increasingly blank. she lowers the phone from her ear. willow is there now, too, and takes the phone from buffy.
willow: giles?
scene direction: buffy leans against the wall and slides down against it into a crouch.
willow: what? no!
scene direction: willow puts the phone down
willow: no!
scene direction: willow begins to cry uncontrollably
willow: noooo!
scene direction: angelus gloats as he looks into the window. joyce comes into the dining room when she hears the crying and holds willow. buffy looks off into space, then finally lowers her head onto her knees. angelus smiles and leaves.
scene change: cut to later. cordelia and xander drive up to buffy and willow, who are waiting for them. xander opens the passenger door and gets out.
buffy: where's giles?
xander: no luck. by the time we got to the station,
scene direction: xander closes the door
xander: the cops said he'd already left.
scene direction: xander cordelia closes her door
xander: i guess they just wanted to ask him some questions.
buffy: cordelia, will you drive us to giles' house?
cordelia: of course.
willow: but don't you think he wants to be left alone?
buffy: i'm not worrying about what he wants. i'm worried about what he's gonna do.
scene direction: they all get into the car.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. the camera sweeps down the stairs. the roses have all been trampled and broken. the camera turns the corner of the staircase and sweeps across the area below. giles' weapons chest is open and almost empty. he walks across the camera's path, drawing a sword.
scene direction: the camera continues around the room, over to his old victrola, where the opera record has played out but is still spinning. the camera pulls back past the desk where giles has a large bag sitting open with various weapons stashed inside. he adds a small can of gasoline, grabs the bag and heads out of the apartment. the camera closes in on the desk and pans down to a pencil sketch of jenny lying dead on the bed.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: giles' apartment. xander pushes the door open. a piece of yellow crime scene tape is stretched across the doorway.
xander: hello? giles?
scene direction: he ducks under the tape and comes in. willow and the others follow.
scene direction: xander goes over to the desk and looks around.
xander: i guess giles had a big night planned tonight.
scene direction: buffy picks up the sketch of jenny
buffy: giles didn't set this up. angel did.
scene direction: buffy hands xander the sketch
buffy: this is the wrapping for the gift.
scene direction: buffy heads upstairs
xander: oh, man.
scene direction: xander exhales
xander: poor giles.
scene direction: willow finds the nearly empty weapons chest.
willow: look, all his weapons are gone.
cordelia: but i thought he kept his weapons at the library.
xander: no, those are his, uh, everyday weapons. these were his good weapons. the ones he, uh, breaks out when company comes to visit.
scene direction: buffy comes back downstairs and stops on the corner landing.
willow: so he's not here.
cordelia: well, then where is he?
buffy: he'll go to wherever angel is.
scene direction: xander turns to face the girls.
willow: that means the factory, right?
cordelia: so giles is gonna try to kill angel then?
xander: well, it's about time somebody did.
willow: xander!
xander: i'm sorry, but let's not forget that i hated angel long before you guys jumped on the bandwagon. so i think i deserve a little something for not saying 'i told you so' long before now. and if giles wants to go after the, uh,
scene direction: xander looks up at buffy
xander: fiend that murdered his girlfriend, i say, 'faster, pussycat! kill! kill!'
scene direction: xander looks back at willow and cordelia
buffy: you're right.
scene direction: willow and cordelia look up at buffy.
xander: thank you.
scene direction: buffy takes the rest of the steps down
buffy: there's only one thing wrong with giles' little revenge scenario.
xander: and what's that?
buffy: it's gonna get him killed.
scene change: cut to spike's warehouse. angelus is being lectured.
spike: are you insane?! we're supposed to kill the bitch, not leave gag gifts in the friends' beds.
scene direction: drusilla cuddles her puppy
drusilla: but, spike, the bad teacher was going to restore angel's soul.
spike: what if she did? if you ask me, i find myself preferring the old buffy-whipped angelus. this new, improved one is not playing with a full sack.
scene direction: spike gets a look from angelus
spike: i love a good slaughter as much as the next bloke, but his little pranks will only leave us with one incredibly brassed-off slayer!
angelus: don't worry, roller boy. i've got everything under control.
scene direction: a molotov cocktail swooshes in and bursts on the table, setting it ablaze. drusilla runs away with spike wheeling right behind her. they stop out of reach of the flames. angelus cuts across at the end of the table and gets hit in the shoulder with a crossbow bolt. he grabs it to pull it out while looking to see who his attacker is. giles walks toward him with a baseball bat. angelus pulls the bolt out and throws it aside.
scene direction: giles puts the end of the bat into the flames, and it catches fire. he swings it and hits angelus in the face, then again on the return swing.
scene direction: angelus staggers and bends down.
angelus: jeez, whatever happened to wooden stakes?
scene direction: giles whales on angelus' back several times. drusilla makes a move to intervene, but is held back by spike.
spike: uh-uh. no fair going into the ring unless he tags you first.
scene direction: angelus stands back up, but giles swings the bat into his face twice again, making him fall once more. he continues beating on him, making angelus collapse all the way to the floor. angelus tries to get up, but giles swings into his jaw from underneath. he wields the still burning bat over his head, but as he brings it down angelus catches it, and they begin to struggle. angelus quickly gains the upper hand, and takes giles by the throat, lifting him off of his feet. he drops the bat.
angelus: all right. you've had your fun. but you know what it's time for now?
scene direction: he gets kicked in the back by buffy and lets giles fall to the floor.
scene direction: she pulls him back and slams him into the spiral staircase.
buffy: my fun.
scene direction: she kicks him in the face and then shoves him onto the floor. drusilla quickly wheels spike away. buffy kicks angelus in the face again as he tries to get up, and then lunges at him. he grabs her, flips her over and tries to get away up the stairs. buffy gets back to her feet fast with giles' dropped baseball bat in hand and pushes it between the stair railings to trip angelus up. he falls and she grabs one of his legs. he kicks out at her with it and knocks her off of him and onto the floor.
scene direction: he scrambles up the stairs. buffy gets up quickly. she sees a stack of crates, runs up it to the catwalk above, and meets angelus there. he swings at her, but she ducks and kicks him in the back of the knee, making him collapse onto the railing. she grabs a loop of rope, throws it around his neck and yanks him back and forth between the railings several times, then kicks him in the chest, making him stagger back and fall onto his butt. he gets up fast, but she grabs onto a pipe above her head and swings with both feet into his chest again, making him fly back into a barrel and some ducting. she waits on the catwalk for him to come at her again, ready to fight. he charges, and she takes him and diverts him past her and onto the catwalk grating, where he lands with his head against one of the vertical railing bars. she kicks his face, and follows up with several punches and another kick. he starts to laugh as she grabs him by the coat and bangs his head into the railing a couple of times.
angelus: are you gonna let your old man just burn?
scene direction: she looks down and sees the flames getting higher and nearer to giles.
scene direction: angelus takes advantage of the distraction and grabs her legs, lifts her and throws her over the railing. she manages to control her fall and land on her feet near giles. angelus takes off down the catwalk and out of the building. buffy wakes giles and gets him to his feet, and she supports him as they make their way from the building also. cut outside.
scene direction: they both come out coughing from the smoke. he pushes her away from him.
giles: why did you come here?! this wasn't your fight!
scene direction: she punches him in the jaw, and he spins and falls to the pavement.
buffy: are you trying to get yourself killed?!
scene direction: she begins to cry and crouches down to hug him. he cries and hugs her back.
buffy: you can't leave me. i can't do this alone.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment building. cut to his door, still with the crime scene tape across it.
scene direction: angelus narrates
angelus: it hurts sometimes more than we can bear.
scene direction: giles tears the tape from his doorway and just stares at it for several seconds.
scene direction: angelus narrates
angelus: if we could live without passion, maybe we'd know some kind of peace. but we would be hollow.
scene direction: giles enters his apartment.
scene direction: angelus narrates
angelus: empty rooms, shuttered and dank...
scene change: cut to the cemetery. the camera pans across a small pond.
scene direction: angelus narrates
angelus: without passion, we'd be truly dead.
scene direction: the camera pans past jenny's gravestone. giles kneels down and lays some flowers on her grave. he looks at her name on the headstone for a moment before standing back up. buffy is there next to him.
giles: in my years as... watcher... i've buried... too many people. but jenny was the first i've loved.
scene direction: buffy looks up at him
buffy: i'm sorry. i'm sorry i couldn't kill him for you...
scene direction: buffy looks down at the grave
buffy: for her... when i had the chance.
scene change: cut to a shot of the gravestone. it reads just 'jennifer calendar'.
buffy: i wasn't ready.
scene change: cut to jenny's classroom. the students all wait at their desks for the teacher to arrive. willow walks in and stands at the front of the room.
scene direction: buffy voiceover
buffy: but i think i finally am.
willow: hi. principal snyder asked me to fill in for ms. calendar... u- until the new computer science teacher arrives. so i'm just gonna stick to the lesson plan she left.
scene direction: she walks around to the front of the desk and looks over the books and things that are there.
scene direction: buffy narrates
buffy: i can't hold on to the past anymore. angel has gone.
scene direction: nothing's ever gonna bring him back.
scene direction: willow puts down her own books, and in the process nudges a few books aside a little. as a result the yellow disk that jenny had set next to the books gets pushed off of the edge. it falls between the desk and the small filing cabinet next to it. it hits the floor and spins around a few times before coming to rest leaning against the side of the cabinet 