scene change: sunnydale high. cut to the hall by the trophy case. oz is hunched over inspecting catherine madison's cheerleading trophy. he stares at its eyes as he moves his head from one side to the other. willow enters the hall from outside and comes up to him.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: hi.
scene direction: oz straightens up
oz: oh, that's what i was gonna say.
willow: what cha looking at?
scene direction: willow looks into the case
scene direction: oz points
oz: this cheerleading trophy.
scene direction: oz moves and watches
oz: it's like its eyes follow you wherever you go. i like it.
scene direction: he stands back up straight again and gives his attention back to willow.
scene direction: they start down the hall together.
willow: so did you like the movie last night?
oz: i don't know. t-today's movies are kind of like popcorn. you know, you forget about them as soon as they're done. i do remember i liked the popcorn, though.
scene direction: oz stops walking
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: yeah, it was good. and i had a really fun time with the rest.
scene direction: willow gets a confused look from oz
willow: i mean, the part with you.
oz: oh, that's great. uh, my time was also of the good.
willow: mine, too.
scene direction: willow awkwardness sets in
willow: well, then...
scene direction: oz raises his eyebrows expectantly. willow looks past him and sees buffy down the hall.
willow: oh, there.
scene direction: willow points
willow: i have my friend. so i will go to her.
scene direction: willow goes
oz: i'll see you then. uh, later.
scene direction: oz smiles
scene direction: larry and some other jocks come walking the other direction and stare at willow and buffy walking away. larry bites his fist and comes over to oz.
larry: man! oz, i would love to get me some of that buffy and willow action, if you know what i mean.
scene direction: larry laughs
scene direction: oz nods
oz: that's great, larry. you've really mastered the single entendre.
scene direction: larry notices a pretty girl coming down the hall and ignores the insult to stare at her. as she goes by he taps her books, and they fall out of her hands.
girl: hey!
larry: oops!
scene direction: she bends down to pick up her books, and larry and the other jocks stare at her legs.
larry: ohhh! oh, thank you, thighmaster!
scene direction: larry laughs
scene direction: the girl gives them a dirty look and leaves.
larry: so, oz, man, what's up with that? dating a junior? uh, let me guess. that little innocent schoolgirl thing is just, uh, just an act, right?
oz: yeah. yeah, she's actually an evil mastermind. it's fun.
larry: i mean, she's gotta be putting out, or what's the point? what are you gonna do, talk?
scene direction: larry laughs
larry: come on, fess up. how far have you gotten?
scene direction: cut outside to buffy and willow walking along the colonnade.
willow: nowhere. i mean, he said he was gonna wait until i was ready, but i'm ready. honest. i'm good to go here.
buffy: well, i think it's nice that he's not just being an animal.
willow: it is nice. he's great. we have a lot of fun. but i want smoochies!
buffy: have you dropped any hints?
willow: i've dropped anvils.
buffy: ah, he'll come around. what guy could resist your wily willow charms?
willow: at last count, all of them. maybe more.
buffy: well, none of them know a thing. they all get an 'f' in willow.
willow: but i want oz to get an 'a', and, oh, one of those gold stars.
scene direction: they sit on a bench.
buffy: he will.
willow: well, he better hurry. i don't want to be the only girl in school without a real boyfriend.
scene direction: buffy looks down sadly. willow realizes her insensitivity.
willow: oh, i'm such an idiot. i'm sorry. i-i shouldn't even be talking about... do you want me to go away?
buffy: i wish you wouldn't.
willow: how are you holding up anyway?
buffy: i'm holding. i was going on two minutes there without thinking about angel.
scene direction: willow trying to be cheerful
willow: well, there you go.
buffy: but i would do a lot better if you and xander and i could do that 'sharing our misery' thing tonight.
willow: great. i'll give xander a call. what's his number? oh, yeah, 1- 800-i'm-dating-a-skanky-ho.
scene direction: willow rolls her eyes
scene direction: buffy surprised
buffy: meow!
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: really? thanks. i've never gotten a 'meow' before.
buffy: well-deserved.
willow: darn tootin'. i'm just saying xander and cordelia? i mean, what does he see in her anyway?
scene direction: cut inside cordelia's car in a secluded area of the park that night. she and xander are making out. suddenly xander breaks off.
xander: but what could she possibly see in him?
cordelia: excuse me? we didn't come here to talk about willow. we came here to do things i can never tell my father about because he still thinks i'm a... good girl.
xander: i just don't trust oz with her. i mean, he's a senior, he's attractive -- okay, maybe not to me, but -- and he's in a band. and we know what kind of element that attracts.
cordelia: i've dated lots of guys in bands.
scene direction: xander nods
xander: thank you.
cordelia: do you even wanna be here?
xander: i'm not running away.
cordelia: because when you're not babbling about poor, defenseless willow, you are *raving* about the all-powerful buffy.
xander: i do not babble. i occasionally run-on, every now and then i yammer...
cordelia: xander?
xander: yeah?
cordelia: look around. we're in my daddy's car, it's just the two of us, there is a beautiful, big full moon outside tonight. it doesn't get more romantic than this.
scene direction: cordelia insistent
cordelia: so shut up!
scene direction: they start making out again. cut outside. the camera pulls away from the car into the bushes until a large, hairy beast watching them comes into view. it growls menacingly.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: inside cordelia's father's car at the park. she and xander are sucking face. xander hears some rustling outside and breaks off.
xander: did you hear that?
cordelia: what is it now?
xander: i thought i heard something.
cordelia: i-is willow sending out some sorta distress signal that only *you* can hear?
xander: huh.
scene direction: he smiles at her sheepishly, and they go back to it. an instant later xander hears more rustling, louder this time, and pulls back again.
xander: okay, now i *know* i heard something.
cordelia: alright, that's it. you know, your mind hasn't been here all night. how about i just drop you off...
scene direction: a hairy arm with a clawed hand punches through the convertible top.
scene direction: cordelia screams and makes a grab for the keys.
xander: get us outta here!
scene direction: the creature on the roof of the car snarls as it reaches around for them inside. the keys aren't in the ignition, and cordelia frantically searches for them on the floor.
scene direction: cordelia screams
cordelia: where are the keys?
xander: we should be moving! let's go!
scene direction: cordelia finds the keys
cordelia: oh, i got 'em! got 'em!
scene direction: she fumbles with the keys, but manages to get them into the ignition and starts the car. she puts it into reverse and screams as she guns the car backward a ways and then slams on the brakes. the beast tumbles off of the back and into a tree. cordelia gets the car in drive and speeds away. the camera shows the car from above with a gaping hole in the ragtop as it maneuvers back to the road and races off.
xander: told ya i heard something.
scene change: cut to the school parking lot the next day. buffy inspects the hole in the roof.
buffy: and you're sure it was a werewolf?
scene direction: buffy gets off of the car
xander: well, let's see, um, six feet tall, claws, a big old snout in the middle of his face like a wolf. um, yeah, i'm sticking with my first guess.
oz: seems wise.
xander: oh, oh, and then there was that little thing where it tried to bite us.
cordelia: it was so awful.
scene direction: cordelia puts her head on xander's shoulder
scene direction: xander puts his arm around her
xander: i know.
scene direction: cordelia tears herself away
cordelia: daddy just had this car detailed.
scene direction: giles comes up behind buffy with a newspaper.
buffy: so what's the word?
giles: well, it seems there were a, a number of other attacks by a wild dog around town.
scene direction: giles hands the paper to buffy
giles: several animal carcasses were found mutilated.
willow: you mean, like bunnies and stuff?
scene direction: willow upset
willow: no, don't tell me.
scene direction: willow looks at oz
scene direction: oz reassuringly
oz: oh, don't worry. i mean, they might not look it, but bunnies can really take care of themselves.
scene direction: willow calmer and smiling
willow: yeah.
oz: yeah.
scene direction: giles takes the paper back
giles: yes, uh, um, fortunately, no people were injured.
buffy: that falls into the 'that's a switch' column.
giles: well, for now. but my guess is that this werewolf will be back at next month's full moon.
willow: what about tonight's full moon?
scene direction: giles confused
giles: pardon?
willow: well, last night was the night before the full moon, traditionally known as... 'the night before the full moon.' giles: meaning the accepted legend that werewolves only prowl during a full moon might be erroneous.
cordelia: or it could be a crock.
xander: unless the werewolf was using last year's almanac.
buffy: looks like giles has some schooling to do.
giles: yes, i must admit i, i am intrigued. werewolves, it's... it's one of the classics.
scene direction: giles start away
giles: i, i'm sure my books and i are in for a fascinating afternoon.
scene direction: giles leaves
scene direction: buffy and cordelia watch him go. xander smirks at giles' typical behavior.
buffy: he needs to get a pet.
scene change: cut to the gym. the class is seated on the bleachers listening to the female self-defense coach.
coach: sunnydale is becoming more dangerous all the time. and a full moon like tonight tends to bring out the crazies, but with some simple basics of self-defense each of you can learn how to protect yourself.
scene direction: buffy quietly to willow
buffy: here's a suggestion: move away from the hellmouth.
coach: what you wanna do is gain advantage of the situation as quickly as possible.
scene direction: willow smiles at buffy's suggestion. behind her oz reaches up and turns the tag sticking out of her sweatshirt back inside. she looks back at him curiously.
oz: tag.
scene direction: oz pats her on the back
scene change: willow smiles at buffy. cut to xander and cordelia.
coach: your attacker may have the benefit of surprise.
xander: would you look at that? he's all over her.
scene direction: cordelia looks over at buffy, oz and willow.
coach: but if you plot ahead,...
xander: psst! hey, buddy, this is a public forum here.
scene direction: cordelia looks back at him, as do buffy, oz and willow.
coach: ...then you can turn that advantage to yourself.
cordelia: i think you splashed on just a little too much 'obsession for dorks'.
coach: by being prepared, you have the power. okay, everyone get into your assigned groups.
scene direction: the students all get up from the bleachers and go down to the floor.
scene direction: larry takes off his sweat jacket and goes to the table in front of them to check which group he's in. xander sees his arm all wrapped up in a bandage just above the elbow.
xander: what happened?
larry: oh, last week some huge dog jumped out of the bushes and bit me.
scene direction: thirty-nine stitches. they oughta shoot those strays.
scene direction: oz next to larry
oz: i've been there, man.
scene direction: oz holds up his finger
oz: my cousin jordy just got his grownup teeth in? does not like to be tickled.
scene direction: xander laughs. larry just shakes his head and then goes over to theresa, who is doing stretching exercises.
scene direction: larry into her ear
larry: theresa!
scene direction: larry she straightens up
larry: be still my shorts. we're in the same group.
scene direction: larry chuckles and nods
larry: i may have to attack you.
theresa: no, a-a-actually, i think, uh, in our group there are a few of us.
scene direction: buffy joins theresa
buffy: and i'm one of the few.
scene direction: willow comes up behind her quickly, takes her arm and pulls her aside.
scene direction: buffy keeps her eye on larry another moment, then looks at willow as she explains.
willow: don't forget, you're supposed to be a meek little girlie-girl like the rest of us.
scene direction: willow walks off
scene direction: buffy looks at larry
buffy: spoil my fun.
scene change: cut to a few minutes later. everyone is lined up and paired off, girls in front, boys in back.
coach: okay, everyone, listen up. i wanna show you what to do should you be attacked from behind.
scene direction: coach looks at buffy
coach: in this situation, bend forward, using your back and shoulders
scene direction: coach bends her over to demonstrate
scene direction: to flip the assailant over to the ground.
scene direction: the other girls all bend over, too. the boys follow larry's lead and put their arms around the girls' necks. buffy grabs larry's arm and pretends at a few attempts to flip him over. willow gives her a smile and nod.
buffy: uhh! uhh!
larry: oh, summers, you are turning me on.
scene direction: he grabs her butt cheek hard with his other hand. buffy isn't about to take that, and immediately flips him over hard onto the mats in front of them. larry groans as he lies there. willow shoots buffy a look as she and oz stand back up. the coach looks over at her also.
scene direction: oz points
oz: that works, too.
scene change: cut to the library. giles is demonstrating the phases of the moon using a large earth globe with a smaller moon globe attached by a bar.
giles: and, uh, while there's absolutely no scientific explanation for lunar effect on the human psyche, uh, the phases of the moon, uh, do seem to exert a great deal of psychological influence. and th-the full moon is, is, seems to bring out our darkest qualities.
xander: and yet, ironically, uh, led to the invention of the moon pie.
scene direction: giles gets the joke
giles: oh...
scene direction: giles chuckles
giles: yes, the moon pie.
scene direction: giles laughs harder
scene direction: giles gets looks from buffy and willow
giles: y-you see, uh, the-the werewolf, uh, is such a, a potent e-e-extreme representation of our inborn animalistic traits that it e-emerges for three full consecutive nights: the full moon and, uh, the two nights surrounding it.
xander: quite the party animal.
giles: quite. and it, uh, acts on-on pure instinct. no conscience, uh, uh, predatory and, and aggressive.
buffy: in other words, your typical male.
xander: on behalf of my gender, hey.
giles: yes, let's not jump to any conclusions.
buffy: i didn't jump. i took a tiny step, and there conclusions were.
giles: the point is that our wolfman could also be a-a-a wolfwoman, or- or anyone who was bitten by a werewolf.
xander: so then i'm guessing your standard silver bullets are in order here?
giles: no. no bullets. no matter who this werewolf is, i-it's still a human being, who may be completely unaware of his or her condition.
buffy: so tonight we bring 'em back alive.
scene change: cut to that night in a secluded area of the park. the moon is full, and several cars are parked there with couples making out. giles walks by some cars holding his flashlight out in front of him. buffy meets up with him.
scene direction: giles quietly
giles: anything yet?
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: yes. and you won't believe what i saw. brittany podell was making out with owen stadeel, but he goes with barrett williams.
scene direction: buffy gets a look from giles
buffy: if she ever found... no, um, no, no sign of the werewolf. how about you?
giles: uh, the same.
scene direction: giles looks around
giles: i thought we might, uh... i thought we might knock on a few windows, uh, ask if anyone has seen anything yet.
scene direction: buffy gives him a look
buffy: giles, no one's seen anything.
giles: oh, yes. no, of-of-of course not, no. yes.
scene direction: he goes off to continue looking. she stares after him a moment, and then heads off into the bushes herself. cut into the bushes. buffy scans around with her flashlight as she walks into a small clearing. suddenly she hears a noise like a latch releasing and yelps as she finds herself being pulled up in a net trap. below her a hunter points his scoped, double-barreled flintlock up at her and pulls back the hammer.
cain: gotcha!
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: the park at night. cain takes a closer look at what he's caught.
cain: what the hell?
scene direction: buffy yells
buffy: giles! giles!
scene direction: giles comes running
giles: hey!
scene direction: giles sees cain with his gun
giles: whoa!
scene direction: giles holds his arms up
cain: hands are good right about there.
giles: who, who are you? what are you doing?
cain: the name's cain. i'm the one with the gun, which means i'm the one who gets to do the interviewing.
buffy: ahem. hey, before we get all chummy here, how about we do something about me being in this net thing?
scene direction: cain exhales, lowers the flintlock and leans it against a boulder. he pulls out his buck-knife and cuts the rope holding up the net. it falls, and buffy hits the ground fairly hard. giles reaches down to untangle the net.
giles: you alright?
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: buffy gets up
scene direction: cain sees buffy clearly now
cain: gotta say, i'm impressed.
giles: excuse me?
scene direction: buffy looks up at giles, then back at cain.
cain: well, it's good to get the fruit while it's fresh.
giles: you'd be wise to take that back.
cain: hey, what a man and a girl do in lovers' lane at night is nobody's busi...
scene direction: giles makes a move toward cain, but buffy holds him back.
buffy: oh, okay, hey, enough, repulsive brain. it's not what you think.
scene direction: buffy looks at giles
buffy: we're hunting werewolves.
scene direction: cain laughs.
buffy: okay, it's funny if you don't believe in werewolves.
cain: no, it's funny thinking about you two catching one. i mean, this guy looks like he's auditioning to be a librarian, and, you, well, you're a girl.
giles: i assure you she's quite capable.
cain: uh-huh. lemme ask you something, sweetheart. exactly how many of these animals have you taken out?
buffy: as of today?
cain: i tore a tooth from the mouth of every werewolf that i killed.
scene direction: cain holds out his necklace
cain: this next one will bring the total to an even dozen.
buffy: so you're just gonna kill it?
cain: well, see, that's the thing. their pelts fetch a pretty penny in sri lanka, and it's a little hard to skin 'em when they're alive.
giles: y-you hunt werewolves f-for sport?
cain: no, no, i'm in it purely for the money.
buffy: and it doesn't bother you that a werewolf is a person twenty- eight days out of the month?
cain: that's why i only hunt 'em the other three. i'd really love to stay and chat,
scene direction: cain crouches down to collect the net
cain: but i'm on a tight schedule. any idea where else the boys and girls like to get together around here?
buffy: you're looking for a party?
cain: no, but the werewolf is. they're suckers for that whole sexual heat thing. sense it miles away. since this little doggie ain't here, i guess he found another place.
scene direction: cain stands up
buffy: sorry. wish i could help you.
cain: but you don't know squat?
scene direction: cain shakes his head
cain: gee, what a surprise.
scene direction: cain leaves
scene direction: buffy turns and heads back to the car.
giles: where are we going?
buffy: i think i know where to look. we just have to make it there before mein furrier.
scene change: cut to a street. theresa is walking home. she passes a house with a fenced in front yard overgrown with weeds. she hears some rustling and stops to look around. seeing nothing, she continues. cut to a view of her from the other side of the fence. the camera follows behind her. she hears more rustling and stops to look again. something lets out a low growl, and theresa decides it's time to run. she looks back again and doesn't see angelus in front of her. she slams into him and screams.
angelus: everything okay?
scene direction: angelus twirls a daisy
theresa: yeah, i just, uh, i, i thought i heard something... behind me.
scene direction: he walks around her to have a look, then turns back to her.
angelus: no one there.
theresa: oh. i guess i was wrong. i could have sworn that...
angelus: it's okay. it can get pretty scary out here, all alone at night.
theresa: yeah.
angelus: hey, don't i know you from somewhere? don't you go to school with buffy?
theresa: oh, you know buffy?
scene direction: theresa smiles
scene direction: angelus chuckles
angelus: yes, i do, very well.
scene direction: theresa keeps smiling
theresa: oh.
angelus: come on, i'll get you home.
scene direction: they walk off together, taking another quick look behind them.
scene change: cut to the bronze. lotion is the band tonight. they're playing "blind for now" as the camera pans from the mirrors on the far wall of the bronze and over to the band playing on the stage.
lyrics: and then sweep this town into a monster truck of shame / carved out of soap and steel and clay and salty fame / you are the first to look away and against me / you shake the squirrel out your tree cut to cordelia and willow sitting on opposite sides of a couch by a low table.
cordelia: i mean, with xander it's always, 'buffy did this', 'willow said that'. buffy, buffy. willow, willow. it's like i don't even exist.
scene direction: cordelia leans back and folds her arm
willow: i sometimes feel like that.
scene direction: willow looks over at cordelia
cordelia: and then when i call him on it, he acts all confused, like i'm the one with the problem.
scene direction: willow nods
willow: his 'do i smell something?' look.
cordelia: all a part of his little guy games. it's like he's there, but then he's not there, and he wants it, but then he doesn't want it.
willow: he's so busy looking around at everything he doesn't have, he doesn't even realize what he *does* have.
cordelia: well, he should at least realize that you have oz.
scene direction: willow frowns and raises an eyebrow
willow: mm, i'm not sure i do.
scene direction: willow confused
willow: oz and i are in some sort of holding pattern, except without the holding or... anything else.
cordelia: what's he waiting for? what's his problem?
scene direction: cordelia rolls her eyes
scene direction: oh, that's right, he's a guy.
scene direction: willow disgusted
willow: yeah, him and xander. guys.
cordelia: who do they think they are?
willow: a couple of guys.
scene direction: suddenly the werewolf drops down from above onto the table in front of them. they both scream and run from the couch in opposite directions.
scene direction: panic sets in around them, and the werewolf just stands there at a half crouch, confused by all the noise.
scene direction: cut outside to the alley. giles and buffy come rolling up in his decrepit car as patrons flee for their lives.
giles: looks as though your hunch was right.
buffy: who could resist sunnydale's own house of hormones?
scene direction: she opens the door and gets out. willow sees her and stops.
willow: the werewolf, it's in there.
scene direction: buffy makes a dash for the door as it's about to be shut by the bouncer.
buffy: coming through!
scene change: she rushes through the door. cut inside. the door is closed on her and she looks back at it as it slams shut with a thud. she slowly steps into the main area and looks around. the place has been trashed by the panicked people. tables and chairs are lying everywhere, spilled drinks are splattered on the floor. buffy sees a shadow behind a bead curtain and makes for it. as she walks she takes off her backpack and pulls out a chain. cut to the restroom and backstage area. buffy sees the bead curtain that leads to the stage office swinging. she climbs the few steps and goes in. she goes through another door to the stage. the chain is wrapped around her forearm, ready to use against the werewolf. slowly she steps out onto the stage. when she's passed the drums the werewolf comes out from behind the stage curtains, snarling. buffy spins around to face it and drops her backpack. she quickly unravels a length of chain from her arms and gets ready. she throws the chain out, and it wraps itself perfectly around the werewolf's neck. it begins to struggle and yanks at the chain, pulling buffy into and over the drums. the chain falls from the werewolf's neck, and it makes a dash for a window. cut outside the window. the werewolf comes crashing through and out into the alley. it takes a quick look both ways and runs away.
scene change: cut to later. the bronze employees are back and begin to straighten things up. buffy puts her chain back into her backpack as cain watches.
cain: you let it get away.
buffy: i didn't let it do anything. i had the chain around its neck.
cain: chain? what were you gonna do, take it for a walk?
buffy: i was going to lock it up.
cain: that's beautiful.
scene direction: cain approaches her
cain: this is what happens when a woman tries to do a man's job.
scene direction: buffy gets up and puts on the backpack as giles comes up behind cain.
giles: now, you look here, mr. cain. this girl risked her life trying to capture a beast that you haven't as yet been able to find.
scene direction: giles takes his bag off of his shoulder
cain: uh-huh. and daddy's doing a great job carrying her bag of milk bones.
scene direction: giles throws down his bag, but restrains himself. cain steps closer to buffy.
cain: you know, sis, if that thing out there harms anyone, it's going to be on your pretty little head. i hope you can live with that.
scene direction: buffy stares him down
buffy: i live with that every day.
scene direction: cain shakes his head
cain: first they tell me i can't hunt an elephant for its ivory...
scene direction: cain turns and leaves
cain: now i've gotta deal with people for the ethical treatment of werewolves.
scene direction: giles under his breath
giles: pillock! right, let's move out.
scene direction: he grabs his bag and goes. buffy follows right behind.
scene change: cut to a loading dock area. the werewolf walks into the light next to a trailer and stops to sniff the air. it looks down and sees a large splotch of blood in the gutter. it continues along the side of the trailer. when it reaches the far end theresa falls to the ground from behind the trailer with a vampire bite clearly visible on her neck. the werewolf looks down at her, but doesn't make a move to eat her. on the other side of her angelus steps up in his game face and growls at the werewolf. the werewolf bares its fangs at angelus and growls more loudly. angelus returns the growl, baring his own fangs and staring the werewolf down, warning him away from theresa's body. angelus slowly backs away and leaves. the werewolf looks down at theresa again and growls, but makes no move to touch her.
scene change: cut to the park. buffy comes walking up behind giles' car.
buffy: giles?
scene direction: when she doesn't see anyone in it she runs up to it.
buffy: giles!
scene direction: she reaches the open window and looks in. giles wakes and sits up.
giles: uhh!
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses and rubs his eyes
buffy: i didn't see you there. i thought something had happened.
giles: oh, no, i'm, uh...
scene direction: buffy opens the passenger door and gets into the car. a newscast is playing on the radio.
scene direction: giles yawns
giles: i'm okay. i'm just, um, fine... uh, just, uh, i'm, uh... uh, any sign of the, uh, werewolf?
scene direction: giles puts his glasses back on
buffy: no. i'm guessing you didn't see anything either from that vantage point of having your eyes closed.
giles: it's, uh, it's, it's, uh, gonna be light soon, so we'd better...
buffy: wait.
radio newscaster: police say that the incident was apparently connected to the animal mutilation which occurred two nights ago. the coroner's office has identified the body as that of sunnydale high school student theresa klusmeyer, age seventeen. the authorities ask that anyone with further information...
giles: buffy, we're gonna get this thing. we have another whole night.
scene direction: giles buffy looks at him
giles: there's nothing more we can do now. it's nearly sunrise. that werewolf won't be a werewolf much longer.
scene direction: buffy looks down sadly.
scene change: cut to a view of sunnydale from atop a hill. the sun is coming up in the distance. cut to the werewolf asleep on the ground in the woods. the camera pans from its hind paws over to its head. when sunlight hits the werewolf it morphs back into its human form. oz wakes up, opens his eyes and looks around confused. he sits up and stares around at the forest.
scene direction: he looks down at himself and realizes he's naked.
scene direction: oz confused
oz: huh.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the dining room at oz's house. he's on the phone with his aunt.
oz: aunt maureen. hey, it's me. um, what? oh! it's, uh... actually it's healing okay. that's pretty much the reason i called. um, i wanted to ask you something. is jordy a werewolf? uh-huh. and how long has that been going on? uh-huh. what? no, no reason. um... thanks. yeah, love to uncle ken.
scene direction: he lowers the phone and turns it off. he stares off into space as the new knowledge that he is the werewolf sinks in.
scene change: cut to the halls at sunnydale high. oz walks slowly among the other students as he makes his way to the library. he looks down and around at everyone, still trying to deal with this new revelation about himself.
scene direction: when he reaches the library he stares at the door for a long moment.
scene direction: cut inside the library. buffy paces. willow is sitting at the table with giles behind her, and xander is leaning against the counter.
buffy: i can't believe i let that thing get away. cain was right. i shoulda killed it when i had the chance.
scene direction: oz comes in, and has overheard that last comment.
oz: killed what?
buffy: uh, the, uh,
scene direction: buffy ahem
buffy: the werewolf. it-it-it was out last night.
oz: is everybody okay? did anyone get bitten or, or scratched?
willow: no, we're fine.
oz: gladness.
buffy: yeah, but he got someone. theresa.
oz: 'got', as in...
scene direction: buffy just looks at him and briefly raises her eyebrows.
oz: oh, i'm sorry.
buffy: and i coulda stopped it.
scene direction: buffy sits
giles: well, we, we have one more night.
oz: another night?
buffy: oh, yeah. believe me, i'm gonna give that wolfie something to howl about.
oz: hmm.
scene direction: xander comes over
xander: but while we hang here doing nothing, there's a human werewolf walking around out there, probably making fun of us.
scene direction: willow with a hint of sarcasm
willow: the way werewolves always do.
oz: but there's really no way to tell who it is.
xander: oh, sure there is. giles knows stuff, and i'm practically an expert on the subject.
willow: on account of once you were a hyena?
xander: i know what it's like to crave the taste of freshly killed meat, to be taken over by those uncontrollable urges.
buffy: you said you didn't remember anything about that.
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: i said i didn't remember anything about that. look, the point is, is i have an affinity with this thing. i can get inside of its head.
scene direction: xander closes his eyes and begins to *be* the werewolf
xander: i'm a big, bad wolf. i'm on the prowl.
scene direction: xander sniffs
xander: i'm sniffing, i'm snarling, i'm a slobbering predator, i'm...
scene direction: xander opens his eyes
xander: wait a second! it's right in front of us.
scene direction: xander oz's eye go wide with the fear of being recognized
xander: it's obvious who i am. i'm larry!
scene direction: xander oz breathes a sigh of relief
xander: the guy's practically got wolf-boy stamped on his forehead. you got the dog bite, you got the aggression, not to mention the excessive back hair.
buffy: and he was awfully gleeful about tormenting theresa.
giles: still, that doesn't necessarily mean that...
xander: i'm gonna go talk to him. gonna force a confession out of him.
scene direction: xander leaves
giles: good. go. uh, in the meantime, we need to cover our bases.
scene direction: willow, um, check the student files. see if anybody else fits the profile. uh, buffy?
buffy: where are we going?
giles: i-if none of that works, i think i may have an alternative.
scene direction: giles goes into his office
buffy: yeah, me and the werewolf alone in a cage for three minutes. that's all i ask.
scene direction: buffy gets up and follows giles
scene direction: willow to oz
willow: are you okay?
scene direction: oz comes back to earth
oz: what?
willow: you kind of knew theresa.
oz: oh, yeah, i, uh, i'm trying not to think about it. it's... it's a lot.
willow: it is. but we can do stuff to help. sometimes it feels good to help.
oz: uh-huh.
scene direction: buffy comes back to the office door, but holds back, not wanting to interrupt willow with oz.
willow: well, like... looking up stuff. i'm gonna be doing that most of the night. you could help me, help together?
scene direction: oz unsure what to do
oz: i can't. um, uh, i'm busy.
willow: oh. so...
oz: i... i gotta go.
scene direction: he jogs out of the library. willow watches him go, confused about his behavior. buffy looks sadly at her friend from the office doorway.
scene change: cut to the boys' locker room. the camera pans over to the sinks where larry is splashing some water onto his face. he grabs a towel and dries off as he heads for his gym locker. xander is there waiting for him and kicks his locker closed to get his attention. larry takes the towel from his face and looks at xander, startled.
larry: harris. sheesh. next time wear a bell.
scene direction: larry opens his locker
xander: why so jumpy, larry?
larry: geeks make me nervous.
xander: is that really it or is there something you're hiding?
scene direction: larry leans on his locker door
larry: i could hide my fist in your face.
xander: i know your secret, big guy. i know what you've been doing at night.
larry: you know, harris, that nosey little nose of yours is going to get you into trouble someday...
scene direction: larry grabs xander by the shirt
larry: like today.
xander: hurting me isn't gonna make this go away. people are still gonna find out.
scene direction: larry lets go
larry: alright. what do you want? hush money? is that what you're after?
xander: i don't *want* anything! i just wanna help!
larry: what, you think you have a cure?
xander: no, it's just... i know what you're going through because i've been there. that's why i know you should talk about it.
larry: yeah, that's easy for *you* to say. i mean, you're nobody. i've got a reputation here.
xander: larry, please, before someone else gets hurt.
scene direction: larry points at xander's chest
larry: look, if this gets out, it's over for me.
scene direction: larry turns and takes a few paces away
larry: i mean, forget about playing football. they'll run me outta this town. i mean, come on! how are people going to look at me
scene direction: larry faces xander
larry: after they find out i'm gay.
scene direction: xander looks at him in astonishment. larry looks like a heavy burden has just been lifted and smiles.
larry: oh, wow. i said it. and it felt... okay.
scene direction: larry whispers
larry: i'm gay.
scene direction: larry approaches xander
larry: i am gay.
xander: i heard you the first time.
larry: i can't believe it. it was almost easy. i never felt i could tell anyone.
scene direction: larry gestures to xander
larry: and then you, you of all people, you bring it outta me.
xander: it probably would have slipped out even if i wasn't here.
scene direction: larry leans on his locker door
larry: no, no, because knowing you went through the same thing, made it easier for me to admit it.
scene direction: xander wide-eyed
xander: the same thing...
scene direction: larry puts his arm around xander
larry: it's ironic. i mean, all those times i beat the crap out of you, it musta been because i recognized something in you that i didn't want to believe about myself.
scene direction: xander laughs nervously
xander: larry, no, i am not...
larry: of course, of course not. don't worry.
scene direction: larry pats xander on the shoulder
larry: i wouldn't do that to you. your secret's safe with me.
scene direction: he gives xander a thumbs-up and smiles.
scene direction: larry to himself
larry: wow.
scene direction: he drapes the towel around his neck, closes his gym locker and walks off. xander stares after him in disbelief.
scene change: cut to the library. willow is 'net surfing on her laptop. buffy comes out of giles' office and goes over to her.
buffy: so what's the scuttlebutt? anybody besides larry fit our werewolf profile?
scene direction: buffy sits on the table
willow: there is one name that keeps getting spit out. aggressive behavior, run-ins with authorities, about a screenful of violent incidents.
buffy: okay, most of those were not my fault. somebody else started 'em. i was just standing up for myself.
scene direction: willow looks up at buffy
willow: they say it's a good idea to count to ten when you're angry.
buffy: one... two... three...
scene direction: willow looks back at her laptop
willow: i'll keep looking.
scene direction: willow goes back to work
buffy: i, um... noticed you were looking solo.
willow: yeah. oz wanted to be someplace that was
scene direction: willow looks up at buffy
scene direction: away... from me.
buffy: i'm sorry.
scene direction: willow leans back in her chair
willow: i can't figure him out. i mean, he's so hot and cold. or luke-warm and cold.
buffy: welcome to the mystery that is men. i think it goes something like, they grow body hair, they lose all ability to tell you what they really want.
willow: it doesn't seem like a fair trade.
scene direction: willow stands up and puts her laptop in its case
buffy: well, if you wanna up the speed quotient with oz, maybe you need to do something daring. maybe you need to make the first move.
scene direction: she slides off of the table, and willow follows her as she gets her stuff for class.
willow: well, that won't make me a slut?
buffy: i think your reputation will remain intact.
scene change: cut to the hall. willow and buffy come out of the library.
willow: it used to be so much easier to tell if a boy liked you. he'd punch you on the arm and then run back to his friends.
buffy: those were the days.
scene direction: xander comes up to them
xander: hey.
scene direction: they stop. he taps buffy on the arm. she looks up at him.
willow: i'll see you guys later.
scene direction: willow buffy looks at her
willow: cordelia asked me to look over her history homework before class. i think that means i might have to *do* it.
scene direction: willow goes off
xander: wow, those two gals are hanging out a lot together. this would be a good time to panic.
scene direction: buffy lets out a laugh. they start down the hall.
buffy: so how'd it go with larry?
xander: what's that supposed to mean?
buffy: i think it's supposed to mean, 'so how'd it go with larry'?
scene direction: she stops at her locker and reaches for the combination lock.
xander: he's not the werewolf. can't we just leave it at that? must you continue to *push* and *push*?
scene direction: buffy opens her locker
buffy: i'm sorry. i was just wondering.
scene direction: buffy takes off her pack
xander: well, he's not.
buffy: okay.
xander: okay.
buffy: but there goes our lead suspect.
scene direction: buffy sticks her pack in her locker
scene direction: which then puts us right back at (closes the locker) square boned.
xander: you're not boned, you're buffy. eradicator of evil. defender of, um... things that need defending.
buffy: tell that to theresa. she could have used my defending before she was ripped apart by that...
scene direction: buffy stops and considers
xander: werewolf.
buffy: nowhere in any of the reports did it say anything about her being mauled.
scene direction: buffy looks up at xander
buffy: i mean, they were linked to the animal attacks from the other night, so we just assumed werewolf.
xander: what else should we have assumed?
scene change: cut to the funeral home. theresa is laid out in her coffin with a scarf around her neck. buffy pulls it back and sees the bite.
buffy: vampire.
xander: so that's good, right? i mean in the sense of the werewolf didn't get her, and...
scene direction: xander gets a look from buffy
xander: no. there is no good here.
buffy: no good. instead of not protecting theresa from the werewolf,
scene direction: buffy goes over to the guest register
buffy: i was able to not protect her from something just as bad.
scene direction: buffy looks at all the signatures
buffy: she had a lot of friends.
scene direction: buffy takes the pen to add her own
xander: buffy, you can't blame yourself for every death that happens in sunnydale. if it weren't for you people'd be lined up five deep waitin' to get themselves buried. willow would be robbie the robot's love slave, i wouldn't even have a head,
scene direction: xander looks at the coffin
xander: and theresa's a vampire.
scene direction: theresa sits up, looks over at them and growls. buffy turns around and sees her hop out of the coffin. she lunges at theresa, grabs her and tries to wrestle her to the floor, but theresa throws her down instead.
scene direction: she dives after buffy and tries to pin her, but buffy rolls her over and gets on top. she makes a quick grab for a wooden easel holding a flower wreath and breaks off a leg. she's about to thrust it into theresa's chest when she speaks.
theresa: angel sends his love.
scene direction: buffy is caught off guard by that and hesitates a moment. theresa kicks buffy's arm and sends the stick flying away. she grabs buffy by the shoulders, wrestles her onto her back and pins her. buffy struggles to keep her at bay. behind her xander has grabbed the easel and jams one of its legs through theresa's back. she bursts into ashes. buffy stares up at xander. he tosses the easel aside and looks down at her. buffy looks aside sadly and then rolls over.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: angel.
scene direction: buffy gets to her knees
scene direction: xander leans down to her
xander: are you okay?
scene direction: buffy takes his hand
buffy: this isn't happening.
scene direction: buffy pulls herself up and hugs xander
buffy: he's gonna keep coming after me.
scene direction: xander hugs back gently
xander: don't let him get to you. he's not the same guy you knew.
scene direction: she pulls back a bit and looks up at him. he looks back kindly. she lets go, picks up her backpack and goes out. xander stares after her.
xander: oh, no, my life's not too complicated.
scene direction: he shakes his head and follows her out.
scene change: cut to the woods. cain's van is parked with the curtains drawn across the cab. cut inside the van. it's set up like a small hunter's lodge, with hunting equipment and traps hanging from the walls and a lab bench full of reloading equipment. he reaches down, picks up a small iron pan and sets it on the bench. he has a bunsen burner going. he takes a small long-handled melting cup and holds it over the flame. when the metal in the cup has become molten he brings it over to a mold that he's holding over the iron pan with his other hand and pours the silver into it. he sets the melting cup aside and breaks open the mold. inside is a perfectly formed bullet. he holds it up to inspect it in the dim light.
scene change: cut to a shot of the full moon rising.
scene change: cut to oz's dining room. he has a box full of shackles and locks and dumps them out. he looks at them and considers a moment, then with a strengthened resolve starts to put one on. he's about to put the lock on when there's a knocking at the door. he ignores it and looks at the lock. as he moves to put it on there's another knock on the door. he looks at it in frustration and sets the lock and shackles down. the knocking continues insistently as he goes over to the door. when he opens it he finds an irate willow standing there, ready to knock even more.
oz: willow! what are you doing?
scene direction: she pushes her way inside.
willow: i had this whole thing worked out.
scene direction: willow goes toward the dining room
willow: and i had it written down, uh, but then it didn't make any sense
scene direction: willow turns to face him
willow: when i was reading it back.
oz: willow, this is not a very good time.
willow: i mean, what am i supposed to think? first, you buy me popcorn
scene direction: willow paces away
willow: and then you're all glad that i didn't get bit.
scene direction: willow paces back
scene direction: willow softly
willow: and you put the tag back in my shirt.
scene direction: willow harshly
willow: but i guess none of that means anything because instead of looking up names with me, here you are all alone in your house doing nothing by yourself.
oz: willow, we'll talk about this tomorrow. i promise.
scene direction: he tries to take hold of her to lead her out, but she shakes him off.
willow: no, damn it! we'll talk about this now! buffy told me that sometimes what a girl makes has to be the first move and now that i'm saying this, i'm starting to think that the written version sounded pretty good, but you know what i mean.
oz: i know, i know, it's me. i'm, i'm goin' through some... changes.
willow: well, welcome to the world! things happen. don't you think i'm going through a lot?
oz: not like me.
willow: oh, what, so now you're special?
scene direction: willow paces away into the dining room
willow: you're special boy...
scene direction: willow sees the shackles
willow: with chains and stuff. why do you have chains and stuff?
scene direction: oz doubles over in pain and hugs his chest.
oz: willow, please!
scene direction: oz heads for the door
oz: get outta here!
scene direction: she stares at him confused. he falls behind the couch out of her view.
scene direction: there he begins to rapidly grow hair and mutate into a werewolf.
willow: oz? oz, what is it?
scene direction: she slowly approaches the couch. oz's fingers grow longer and hairier.
willow: what's wrong?
scene direction: she hears oz moaning in pain. she looks carefully over the couch, and oz the werewolf leaps to his feet and growls at her. she screams and jumps backward away from him.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: oz's living room. willow screams and starts to run through the dining room. oz the werewolf gives chase. she runs down the hall and out a back door.
scene change: cut to the streets. willow runs. the werewolf comes around the corner chasing after her. she goes up to a wooden fence, hops up and tries to pull herself over. she's not quite fast enough and only has one leg over when the werewolf catches up. it makes a grab for her leg, but misses as she drops over the other side and manages to land in a crouch on her feet. she sees a couple of metal trashcans there, grabs one and smashes it into the werewolf's face as it tries to climb over after her.
scene change: cut to the street. cain's van rolls slowly along. he looks up and sees the werewolf trying to get over the fence.
cain: there you are.
scene direction: he pulls the van over to the side.
scene change: cut to the library. giles opens a guncase, undoes the straps and pulls out the stock. he grabs the barrel and scope assembly and clicks them into place. buffy comes walking up behind him.
buffy: sorry i'm late. i had to do some unscheduled slayage in the form of theresa.
scene direction: he stops his assembling to look at her.
giles: she's a vampire?
buffy: was. angel sent her to me. a little token of his affection.
giles: buffy, i'm so sorry.
scene direction: buffy holds up her hand
buffy: not now, giles. we can all have ourselves a good cry after we bag us a werewolf.
scene direction: he plugs in the laser sight and holds the tranquilizer gun up to check the scope.
scene change: cut to the woods. willow runs quickly through the trees with the werewolf not far behind. she hops over a log, but then trips and falls to the ground. she rolls to face the werewolf and looks at it in terror.
scene direction: it doesn't attack, but instead sniffs the air. it looks around for the direction of the scent and rushes off. willow quickly gets to her feet and runs the other way.
scene change: cut to the library. giles checks the trigger mechanism of the gun.
giles: all set.
scene direction: giles grabs a dart
giles: let's go find this thing.
scene direction: giles starts out
buffy: one question: how exactly do we find this thing?
scene direction: willow comes barging into the library.
willow: it's oz! it's oz!
buffy: wh-what's oz?
willow: the werewolf.
giles: are you certain?
scene direction: willow frantic
willow: can't you just trust me on this? he-he said he was going through all these changes. then he went through all these...
scene direction: changes.
buffy: where is he now?
willow: in the woods.
giles: let's go.
scene direction: giles starts out again
scene direction: willow grabs and stops him
willow: go where? you're not gonna kill oz! yeah, he's a werewolf, but he doesn't mean to be.
buffy: don't worry, willow. we're not going to hurt him.
scene direction: they all start out of the library.
giles: i put enough phenobarbital in this thing to sink a small elephant. it should be enough for a large werewolf.
scene direction: he grabs his coat from the counter and holds the door open for the girls.
scene change: cut to the woods. the werewolf has found what it's looking for. so has cain, and he cocks his flintlock's hammer back and lifts it to his shoulder. the werewolf gets closer to the pile of meat cain has left out for him.
cain: that's it. let me see you. come on, suppertime.
scene direction: the werewolf is on top of the bait now, and cain takes aim.
cain: good, doggy. now play dead.
scene direction: he is about to pull he trigger when he gets kicked from the side. he falls to the ground, and his gun fires wild. the werewolf looks up from its meal at the commotion. buffy grabs cain's gun and wrestles him for it. she flips the rifle over and he follows, landing on his back and letting go of the gun in the process. as he tries to get up buffy swings the butt of the rifle around and knocks him down and out. the werewolf comes at her, and she ducks his lunge. giles and willow arrive to see the werewolf grab buffy and lift her off of her feet. she pushes him back using cain's gun to keep from being bitten. giles tries to get a clear shot, but the werewolf turns and holds buffy up between them.
willow: careful!
scene direction: giles can't get a shot
giles: damn it!
scene direction: he keeps looking for an opening, but is quickly getting frustrated.
scene direction: buffy raises the rifle high and smashes it down on the werewolf's head.
scene direction: it drops her and falls back stunned. it quickly gets up and swipes at her, knocking the gun from her hands. then the werewolf shoves buffy away and right into giles and willow, bowling them over. it starts to come at them. willow scrambles for the tranquilizer gun and brings it up to bear. the werewolf charges, and willow pulls the trigger. the dart hits it in the chest, and it staggers backward a bit before falling over unconscious.
scene direction: willow looks up at giles
willow: i shot oz.
giles: you saved us.
scene direction: he takes the gun from willow. buffy walks over to get cain's gun. he gets to his feet and straightens his coat.
cain: no wonder this town's overrun with monsters. no one here's man enough to kill 'em.
buffy: oh, i wouldn't be too sure of that.
scene direction: cain turns to see her with his flintlock. she grabs the end of the barrel and bends it into a nice arc right in front of him and then thrusts it at him. he looks at her in astonishment.
buffy: how about you let the door hit you in the ass on the way out of town?
scene direction: cain makes a move to go but stops to give her another look. she stares back at him, and then he leaves. she looks down at willow crouched next to oz the werewolf and gets down with her.
willow: you think it'll be okay?
scene direction: they both look up at giles.
giles: he'll be a little sore in the morning, but... he'll be oz.
scene change: cut to sunnydale high the next day. cut to the halls. xander and buffy walk past the trophy case and into the lounge.
xander: this is all so weird. i mean, how are we supposed to act when we see him?
buffy: well, it's gotta be weird for him, too. now that we know so much.
xander: all i know is i'll never be able to look at him the same again.
buffy: he's still a human being. most of the time.
scene direction: they stop at the vending machine.
xander: who are we talking about?
buffy: oz. who are you talking about?
xander: no one.
scene direction: he sees larry's jock friends by the stairs knocking a girl's books out of her hands and laughing. larry comes down the stairs behind her and quickly reaches down to help her pick up her books.
larry: hey, let me get those.
girl: thanks.
scene direction: his friends give him a surprised look. so does buffy. larry comes over to them.
larry: hey! xander. look, about what you did. i, i owe you.
buffy: what'd you do?
xander: it's really nothing we should be talking about.
scene direction: xander to larry
scene direction: ever.
larry: i know, i know. it's just, well,
scene direction: larry pats him on the arm
larry: thanks.
scene direction: larry walks off
buffy: that was weird.
scene direction: they go to a table and sit.
xander: what, it's not okay for one guy to like another guy just because he happened to be in the locker room with him when absolutely nothing happened and i thought i told you not to push.
buffy: all i meant is that he didn't try to look up my skirt.
scene direction: xander fidgets with is hands
xander: oh, oh, yeah, that's, that's the weirdness.
scene direction: xander smiles nervously
buffy: weirdness abounds lately. maybe it's the moon. that does stuff to people.
xander: i've heard that.
scene direction: buffy sees willow walk by
buffy: certainly gonna put a strain on willow and oz's relationship.
xander: what relationship? i mean, what life could they possibly have together?
scene direction: xander counts off on his fingers
xander: we're talking obedience school, paper training, oz is always in back burying their things, and that kind of breed can turn on its owner.
buffy: i don't know. i kinda see oz as the loyal type.
xander: all i'm saying is she's not safe with him. if it were up to me...
scene direction: buffy interrupts
buffy: xander...
scene direction: cut outside to willow walking over to oz sitting on a table.
buffy: it's not up to you.
willow: hey.
oz: hey.
willow: did you want to go first?
oz: i spoke to giles. he said i'll be okay. i just have to lock myself up around the full moon. only he used more words than that. and a globe.
willow: i'm sorry about how all this ended up. with me shooting you and all.
oz: it's okay. i'm, i'm sorry i almost ate you.
willow: it's okay. i kind of thought you would have told me.
oz: i didn't know what to say. i mean, it's not everyday you find out you're a werewolf. that's fairly freaksome. it may take a couple days getting used to.
willow: yeah. it's a complication.
oz: so...
scene direction: oz hops off of the table and they walk
oz: maybe it'd be best if i just... sorta...
willow: what?
oz: well, you know, like, stayed out of your way for awhile.
willow: i don't know. i'm kind of okay with you being *in* my way.
scene direction: oz stops and faces her
oz: you mean, you'd still...
willow: well, i like you. you're nice and you're funny. and you don't smoke. yeah, okay, werewolf, but that's not all the time. i mean, three days out of the month i'm not much fun to be around either.
oz: you are quite the human.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: so, i'd still if you'd still.
oz: i'd still. i'd *very* still.
scene direction: willow smiles widely
willow: okay.
scene direction: willow more seriously
willow: no biting, though.
oz: agreed.
scene direction: willow walks off with a smile on her face. oz turns around and watches her go. he smiles. then he looks surprised to see her rushing back. she looks at him for an instant and then plants a kiss right on his lips. he watches her with a smile as she goes off again.
oz: a werewolf in love 