scene direction: the cemetery at night. the camera is focused on a heart-shaped locket that xander is dangling in the extreme foreground so that everything in the distance is out of focus and unrecognizable.
xander: so, what do you think?
scene direction: the camera shifts its focus onto buffy sitting on a gravestone.
buffy: it's nice.
scene change: cut to a full-view shot of them. they are waiting near a fresh grave.
scene direction: xander approaches buffy, still dangling the locket.
xander: but do you think cordelia will like it?
buffy: i don't know.
scene direction: she pulls it toward herself with her hand to take a closer look.
buffy: does she know what one of these is?
scene direction: he yanks it out of her hand and puts it and his hands into his jacket pockets.
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: okay, big yuks. when are you guys gonna stop making fun of me for dating cordelia?
buffy: i'm sorry. but never.
scene direction: buffy xander nods, smiles and looks down
buffy: i just think you could find somebody more... better.
xander: uh, parallel universe, maybe.
scene direction: xander looks up
xander: here the only other person i'm interested in is, um... unavailable. besides, cordy and i are really getting along. we're not fighting as much, and yesterday we just sat together, not even speakin'. you know, just, uh, enjoying comfortable silence.
scene direction: xander grins and laughs, then loses the grin and exhales
scene direction: man, that was dull.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: i'm glad that you guys are getting along.
scene direction: buffy facetiously
scene direction: almost really. (reassuringly) and don't stress over the gift.
xander: well, this is new territory for me. i mean, my valentines are usually met with heartfelt restraining orders.
buffy: she'll love it.
xander: i wish dating was like slaying:
scene direction: xander steps away
xander: you know, simple, direct, stake to the heart, no muss, no fuss.
scene direction: he turns to face her again just as a vampire rises from the fresh grave.
scene direction: xander reacts quickly and jerks back as the newly risen demon comes for him, but he trips and falls backward onto his butt. buffy hops off of the gravestone and grabs the vampire from behind as he is about to grab xander and throws him high and away. he hits the ground hard. his momentum carries him into a reverse somersault, and he rolls to his feet. he starts to come at buffy. she leaps at him, does a double kick to his chest with both feet in rapid succession and lands upright as the vampire staggers back into the corner column of a small mausoleum. buffy comes at him, but he blocks her first two punches and ducks a third swing. her fourth and fifth punches, however, land on his face, but he isn't fazed. he pushes her aside into the wall of the mausoleum, and after regaining his balance comes at her again. she slides down the wall and kicks out with her leg, making him trip and spin down to the ground.
scene direction: as he gets up she leaps at him with a high kick and knocks him back down again. she reaches into her jacket for a stake, and when the vampire stands back up again and tries to make a grab for her she deftly plunges it into his chest. he immediately bursts into a cloud of ashes. buffy yanks the stake back and watches with satisfaction as the ash rains to the ground. then she heads over to xander and gives him a hand back up to his feet.
buffy: sorry to say, xand, slaying is a tad more perilous than dating.
scene direction: they start out of the cemetery.
xander: well, you're obviously not dating cordelia.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: sunnydale high school the next morning. cordelia walks up the steps from the street. she sees her friends sitting on a wall and heads over to them. when they see her coming they all stand up and make their way toward the main entrance, ignoring her.
cordelia: wait up. hey, wait up!
scene direction: cordelia jogs to catch up
cordelia: excuse me! where's the fire sale?
scene direction: they all stop and turn around to face her.
harmony: oh, sorry. didn't see you.
cordelia: well, why didn't you call me back last night? we need to talk about our outfits for the dance. i'm gonna wear red and black,
scene direction: cordelia points at kate
cordelia: so you need to switch.
kate: red and black? is that what xander likes?
scene direction: cordelia confused
cordelia: xander? what does he have to do with this?
harmony: well, a girl wants to look good for her geek.
cordelia: xander's just...
scene direction: harmony interrupts
harmony: when are you two gonna start wearing cute little matching outfits? 'cause i'm planning to vomit.
scene direction: harmony to the others
harmony: let's go.
scene direction: they all turn away and head into the building, leaving cordelia behind.
scene change: cut to american literature class. the bell rings.
ms. beakman: papers on my desk. anybody tries to leave without giving me a paper is looking at a failing grade.
scene direction: the camera closes in on xander sitting at the back of his row two seats behind willow. buffy is to willow's right, and they both get ready to go.
scene direction: xander holding his paper
xander: ha, ha, ha. this time i'm ready for you. no 'f' for xander today. no, this baby's my ticket to a sweet d-minus.
scene direction: he stands up with his paper in his hands. the two girls do the same.
scene direction: willow steps down the aisle and stops next to amy.
willow: hey, amy.
amy: hey.
scene direction: amy pulls on her backpack
amy: are you guys going to the valentine's day dance at the bronze? i think it's gonna be a lot of fun.
scene direction: willow turns to look at buffy with a huge smile on her face.
buffy: go ahead. you know you wanna say it.
scene direction: willow faces amy again, grinning broadly.
willow: my boyfriend's in the band!
scene direction: amy smiles and laughs
amy: cool.
scene direction: willow looks back at buffy.
buffy: i think you've now told everybody.
willow: only in this hemisphere.
scene direction: willow pulls on her pack
scene direction: amy to buffy
amy: what about you?
scene direction: buffy waves her off
buffy: oh, valentine's day is just a cheap gimmick to sell cards and chocolate.
amy: bad breakup, huh?
buffy: believe me when i say, 'uh-huh'.
scene direction: they all walk up to the teacher's desk, and buffy hands in her paper.
mrs. beakman: thank you.
scene direction: buffy heads out of the room as willow holds up her paper as well. xander is just making his way down the aisle behind amy.
scene direction: mrs. beakman to willow
mrs. beakman: thank you.
scene direction: willow follows buffy out. amy stands in front of mrs. beakman and stares her down. there is a long silence as amy concentrates on staring into the teacher's eyes. xander, standing behind amy, slowly loses his smile as he sees what's going on. a moment later mrs. beakman smiles at amy and gestures as though she's accepting a paper from her.
mrs. beakman: thank you, amy.
scene direction: amy smiles and starts out of the classroom. xander comes up to the desk staring open-mouthed after amy and hands his paper in also.
scene change: cut to the stairs. buffy and willow come walking down. amy hops down past them with a big smile on her face and heads into the lounge.
willow: i just hate to think of you solo on valentine's day.
scene direction: the two of them head down the hall. xander reaches the bottom of the stairs behind them and follows as he watches amy go off in the other direction.
buffy: i'll be fine. mom and i are gonna have a pig-out and vid fest.
scene direction: it's a time-honored tradition among the loveless.
scene direction: xander catches up
xander: did you guys see that?
scene direction: xander points at amy
buffy: see what?
xander: in class. i think amy just worked some magic on ms. beakman.
buffy: you mean like witchcraft?
willow: you know, her mom's a witch.
buffy: and an amateur psycho. amy's the last person that should be messing with that stuff.
xander: maybe i should go talk to her.
scene direction: giles sees them coming his way and calls out.
giles: buffy!
scene direction: giles approaches them
giles: buffy... might i have a word?
buffy: have a sentence, even.
scene direction: giles gets the joke
giles: oh. good. well, uh...
scene direction: he happens to glance off into jenny's classroom as she's talking to a student by the door.
scene direction: jenny to the student
jenny: back it up before you leave.
scene direction: she steps into the hall and stops. she and giles exchange looks with each other. buffy notices the exchange and looks down sadly. jenny shrugs and smiles thinly at giles.
jenny: rupert.
giles: ms. calendar.
scene direction: giles looks down
scene direction: she glances down briefly and back up, then steps toward him.
jenny: i'm glad we ran into each other, actually. i was hoping that we could, uh...
scene direction: jenny gestures toward her room
jenny: do you have a minute?
scene direction: jenny fidgets with her hands
giles: um...
scene direction: giles making excuses
giles: actually, not, not just now. um,
scene direction: giles ahem
scene direction: i, uh, have a matter to discuss with, with buffy.
scene direction: buffy calmly
buffy: right. let's go.
scene direction: she gives jenny a quick glance and squeezes between her and giles, heading for the library. xander and willow watch in silence. giles looks up at jenny for a moment, then slowly turns to follow buffy. jenny drops her arms in despair, looks at xander and willow, and then starts down the hall the other way.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy is sitting at the table hugging her knee while giles comes toward her slowly with his hands in his pockets.
buffy: are you okay?
scene direction: giles looks at her
giles: me? i-i-i'll be fine.
scene direction: giles scratches his nose, then pockets his hand again
giles: um, i was more concerned about you, actually.
scene direction: uh, since angel, um... uh... turned... (sits on the table and folds his hands) i've, um, been reading up on, on his earlier activities. y'know, uh, feeding patterns a-and the like.
buffy: and?
giles: around valentine's day, he, he, he's rather prone to, uh... well, um, brutal displays of, uh... he would think of it as affection, i suppose.
buffy: like what?
giles: no, no, uh,
scene direction: giles gets up
giles: no need to go into details.
scene direction: giles steps away
buffy: that bad?
scene direction: giles faces her
giles: suffice it to say i, i think it would be best if you stayed off the streets for a few nights. i-i-i'll, um...
scene direction: giles sits across from her
giles: i'll patrol and keep an eye on things.
scene direction: giles buffy stares off into space
giles: better safe than sorry.
scene direction: buffy looks over at him
buffy: it's a little late for both.
scene change: dissolve to spike's warehouse. drusilla opens a jewelry case, and inside is a gold necklace with rubies set into an integrated pendant. the camera pans up from it over to spike in his wheelchair.
spike: fancy it, pet?
drusilla: ahhh. it's beautiful. mm.
spike: nothing but the best for my gir...
scene direction: angelus walks up to the table and sets down a human heart, fresh and bloody. he smiles over at spike, then down at drusilla.
angelus: happy valentine's day, dru.
drusilla: oh...
scene direction: drusilla holds her hands over it
drusilla: angel!
scene direction: angelus raises his eyebrows at spike.
drusilla: it's still warm.
scene direction: spike closes his eyes and lets out a deep breath, then looks back up at angelus.
angelus: i knew you'd like it.
scene direction: angelus inhales the aroma
angelus: i found it in a quaint little shopgirl.
scene direction: he sees the necklace, picks it up and holds it out to have a look at it.
angelus: cute.
scene direction: angelus reaches around drusilla's neck with it
angelus: here.
scene direction: she pulls her hair back and away so he can close the clasp behind her neck. spike wheels toward them, upset with angelus' forwardness.
spike: i'll get it.
scene direction: angelus looks up at spike
angelus: done. i know dru gives you pity access, but you have to admit it's so much easier when i do things for her.
scene direction: angelus smiles
scene direction: spike controlling his anger
spike: you would do well to worry less about dru
scene direction: spike angelus rolls his eyes
spike: and more about that slayer you've been tramping around with.
scene direction: angelus paces behind the table
angelus: dear buffy. i'm still trying to decide the best way to send my regards.
scene direction: angelus sits on the table
spike: why don't you rip her lungs out? it might make an impression.
angelus: lacks... poetry.
spike: it doesn't have to.
scene direction: spike inhales and thinks
spike: what rhymes with lungs?
drusilla: don't worry, spike.
scene direction: drusilla looks back at angelus
drusilla: angel always knows...
scene direction: drusilla looks at the heart
drusilla: what speaks to a girl's heart.
scene direction: the camera pans down from her to the heart.
scene change: cut to the bronze for the valentine's day dance. oz and devon's band dingoes ate my baby (four star mary) are playing "pain". xander is at a table with willow, turning a jewelry box around in his hands. the camera pans up to willow watching the band play and bobbing her head to the beat. it pulls back to show xander staring off in another direction, oblivious to the music. the camera focuses on the band as devon sings.
lyrics: feeling i've been lost for years oz smiles over at willow and then looks down at his guitar.
lyrics: you can never understand me / unless you've seen those tears / but you never get to sleep willow looks up at oz and smiles. oz smiles back as he plays.
lyrics: when i'm away / i don't mind / the deeper...
scene direction: willow to xander, smiling
willow: oz has his cool hair today.
lyrics: ...that you lay willow:
scene direction: lyrics excited
lyrics: i think i'm a groupie!
scene direction: lyrics looks back at the band
lyrics: out of time cut to cordelia coming out of the restrooms.
lyrics: pain, i can't sleep she looks around and sees her friends.
scene direction: cordelia smiles
cordelia: oh, hey!
scene direction: they all give her looks of disgust.
lyrics: pain, i can't sleep harmony: let's get outta here.
scene direction: cordelia just stands there and watches them go.
lyrics: running...
scene change: cut to buffy's house. she and her mother are lounging back on the couch watching tv. the coffee table in front of them is full of plates of cookies, cheese puffs and other snacks. buffy has a bowl of popcorn in her lap. they hear a knock at the door and look over in that direction.
scene direction: buffy looks back at her mom, exhales and hands her the popcorn.
buffy: here.
scene change: joyce starts to munch on it. buffy gets up to answer the door. cut to outside. the camera pans over to the door as buffy opens it and looks out. she is puzzled when there's no one there. she looks further out and in both directions. she shrugs with her eyes, goes back inside and closes the door. when she steps back into the living room her mother is gone. she looks back behind her, through the foyer and into the dining room beyond. joyce is nowhere to be seen.
scene direction: buffy concerned
buffy: mom?
scene direction: she walks through the dining room and into the kitchen.
buffy: mom?
scene direction: she walks around the island, looking around all the while, then quickly out the window when she hears a noise, but sees nothing and continues toward the kitchen door. she looks back into the dining room. when she reaches the kitchen door she is startled by her mother coming back in from outside and gasps.
joyce: buffy, it's me.
buffy: yeah. you just startled me a little.
joyce: i was just checking the back door.
scene direction: joyce closes the door
joyce: somebody, um, left these for you.
scene direction: she sets a long black box with a black bow on the island for buffy to see. she looks up at her mother and raises her eyebrows for an instant before lifting the lid off the box. joyce looks down, curious to see what's in it. buffy stares down at it and sees a dozen red roses along with a card bearing a single word - soon. her mother looks up at her with a little smile, but it fades when she sees how buffy is just staring down at the card without saying a word or reacting in any way.
scene change: cut to the bronze. the band continues playing.
lyrics: pain, i can't sleep / pain, i can't sleep xander looks around and spots cordelia sitting alone at a table.
lyrics: pain, i can't sleep he slowly gets to his feet and walks over to her. she notices him coming, looks at him and stands up to meet him. the song is over now.
xander: hey.
scene direction: cordelia looks him up and down
cordelia: your clothes... you look so good.
scene direction: xander looks down at himself
xander: oh. i let buffy dress me.
scene direction: xander gets a confused look from cordelia
xander: well, not physically.
scene direction: cordelia upset
cordelia: perfect. you had to make this harder, didn't you?
xander: okay, clearly the fact that i please you visually has got us off on the wrong foot here.
cordelia: xander...
scene direction: xander stops her with a gesture
xander: let me finish. i've been thinking a lot about us lately... the why and the wherefore. you know, once, twice, a kissy here, a kissy there. and you can chalk it all up to hormones.
scene direction: xander cordelia looks puzzled
xander: a-and maybe that's all we have here. tawdry teen lust. but maybe not. maybe something in you sees something special inside me.
scene direction: xander cordelia looks down, then back up
xander: and vice versa. i mean, i think i do. see something. so...
scene direction: he pulls out the jewelry box and hands it to her. she takes it and looks up at him.
cordelia: xander...
scene direction: cordelia opens the box
cordelia: thank you.
scene direction: cordelia holds up the necklace and pendant
cordelia: it's beautiful.
scene direction: cordelia exhales and looks at him
cordelia: i wanna break up.
scene direction: xander looks at her in disbelief
xander: okay, not quite the reaction i was looking for.
scene direction: cordelia shaking her head
cordelia: i know. i'm sorry. it's just... who are we kidding?
scene direction: cordelia xander looks down at the necklace
cordelia: even if parts of us do see specialness, we don't fit.
scene direction: xander looks up suddenly
xander: yeah! okay...
scene direction: xander very upset
xander: do you know what's a good day to break up with somebody? any day besides valentine's day! i mean, what, were you running low on dramatic irony?
scene direction: cordelia apologetically
cordelia: i know. i didn't mean to do it this way.
scene direction: i...
scene direction: xander interrupts
xander: well, you did.
scene direction: cordelia gives him a sorry look. xander stares back for a moment, then turns and goes away. cordelia looks down at the pendant.
scene change: cut to the halls at school the next day. xander comes moping around the corner. a boy passes him in the halls.
jack: dude.
scene direction: jack pats xander's shoulder
jack: way to get dumped.
scene direction: he continues down the hall, and xander does the same. he looks up and sees buffy coming the other way.
xander: ooo, buffy, my bud,
scene direction: xander takes her hand and stops her
xander: you will not believe...
scene direction: buffy looks at him
buffy: can't talk right now. angel.
scene direction: xander lets go of her hand
xander: do you need help?
buffy: it's alright.
scene direction: she quickly resumes her rapid trek to the library. xander watches her go, then continues down the hall. a group of girls passes around him, staring and giggling at him. he exhales and watches them go. a few steps further along he hears harmony address him, and looks over at her.
harmony: gee, xander, maybe you should learn a second language so that even more girls can reject you.
scene direction: she and the other girls around her laugh to his face. xander just keeps moping along. a moment later he notices amy heading toward the stairs in front of him. he looks back for an instant and then rushes over to her, takes her by the arm and pulls her aside.
amy: what are you doing?
xander: amy. good to see you.
scene direction: xander takes a quick look around
xander: you're a witch.
scene direction: amy glances around
amy: no, i'm not. that, that was my mom, remember?
scene direction: amy smiles
xander: yeah, i'm thinking it runs in the family. i saw you working that mojo on ms. beakman.
scene direction: xander gestures behind himself
xander: maybe i should go tell somebody about...
amy: that's not even...
scene direction: amy angrily
amy: that is so mean!
scene direction: xander glares back
xander: blackmail is such an ugly word.
amy: i didn't say blackmail.
xander: yeah, but i'm about to blackmail you, so i thought i'd bring it up.
scene direction: amy folds her arms
amy: what do you want?
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: what do i want? i want some respect around here. i want, for *once*, to come out ahead. i want the hellmouth to be working for me. you and me, amy...
scene direction: xander looks back at cordelia sitting with harmony now
xander: we're gonna cast a little spell.
scene direction: amy looks past him at cordelia as well, then turns her eyes up at him.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: an empty classroom. xander closes the door behind himself as he follows amy in.
amy: a love spell?
xander: yeah. you know, just the basic can't eat, can't sleep, can't breathe anything but little old moi.
amy: well, that kind of thing is the hardest! i mean, to make someone love you for all eternity?
scene direction: xander waves his hand and shakes his head
xander: whoa! whoa, back up. who said anything about eternity? a man can only talk self-tanning lotion for so long before his head explodes.
amy: well, then i don't get it. if you don't wanna be with her forever, then what's the point?
xander: the point is i want her to want me. desperately. so i can break up with *her* and subject her to the same hell she's been puttin' *me*
scene direction: through.
scene direction: amy turns and steps away
amy: oh, i don't know, xander.
scene direction: amy turns back
scene direction: intent has to be pure with love spells.
xander: right. i intend revenge. pure as the driven snow. now, are you gonna play, or do we need to have another chat about invisible homework?
scene direction: amy considers
amy: i'll need something of hers.
scene direction: amy steps closer
amy: a personal object.
xander: alright.
scene direction: xander smiles and leaves the room
scene change: cut to the library. giles is at the table studying a book. buffy comes striding in and up to the table. she slaps the card that came with the roses into the book in front of him. giles startles a bit and looks up.
buffy: 'soon' what, giles? you never held out on me until the big, bad thing in the dark became my ex-honey.
scene direction: giles looks at the card
giles: where did this come from?
buffy: he said it with flowers. look, this isn't the time to start becoming mr. protective guy. i can't just hang around, and i can't prepare when i don't know what's coming.
scene direction: giles sits up in his chair
giles: n-no, of-of course, you're right.
scene direction: giles gestures to another chair
giles: uh, s-s-sit, sit down.
scene direction: giles stands up
scene change: cut to the hall. xander sees cordelia coming and waits for her. she spots him, pivots around and hurries the other way. xander does a fast walk to catch up and passes her, then spins around to stop her in her tracks.
xander: oh, come on, don't flatter yourself. i'm not gonna make a big scene. i just want the necklace back.
scene direction: cordelia in disbelief
cordelia: what? i thought it was a gift.
xander: no. last night it was a gift. today it's scrap metal. figure i can melt it down and sell it for fillings or something.
cordelia: you're pathetic!
xander: come on, i'm not gonna add to the cordelia chase castoff collection.
scene direction: cordelia glares at him
cordelia: it's in my locker.
scene direction: xander points to her locker with his eyes
xander: i can wait.
scene direction: she gives him another look, then goes over to her locker. xander steps to the side of the hall and leans against the lockers about ten feet from her. he watches the people passing by as she works her combination.
scene direction: she opens the locker and sets down a book. she glances over at him to see if he's looking. satisfied that he's not paying close attention she leans in behind the door, exhales, reaches under the collar of her blouse and pulls the necklace and pendant out. xander just keeps looking around the hall. she undoes the clasp, takes it off and lets out a deep breath. she closes her locker, steps over to him and hands him the necklace.
cordelia: here. it's a good thing we broke up. now i don't have to pretend i like it.
scene direction: xander just gives her a look and leaves.
scene change: cut to the school that night. cut to the science lab. xander is holding a candle and sitting bare-chested and cross-legged on the floor inside a large red symbol for woman painted on the floor. three red vertical stripes are painted on his chest. amy is at a lab table where she's waving the locket over her witch's brew, which is boiling in a beaker over a bunsen burner.
amy: diana... goddess of love and the hunt... i pray to thee. let my cries bind the heart of xander's beloved.
scene direction: amy lowers the necklace into the brew
amy: may she neither rest nor sleep
scene direction: amy the brew sparks
amy: until she submits to his will only.
scene direction: the flame of the burner becomes huge as the power of the spell emanates from the beaker and swirls above it and between her hands.
amy: diana, bring about this love and bless it.
scene direction: the swirls of energy begin to return to the beaker and disappear.
scene direction: amy to xander
amy: blow out the candle now!
scene direction: the spell's power has dissipated. xander blows out the candle and the screen goes black.
scene change: cut to the school the next morning. cut to the hall outside the lounge.
scene direction: xander sees cordelia and her friends sitting at a table and goes over to them with confidence. he rests one hand on the table and leans over it next to cordelia, looking around at all the girls and giving them a smile. cordelia looks up at him.
cordelia: what?
scene direction: xander confidently
xander: morning, ladies.
scene direction: xander to cordelia
xander: some kind of weather we've been having, huh?
cordelia: what do you want? you can't be sniffing around for more jewelry to melt, because all you ever gave me was that smallmart-looking thing.
scene direction: cordelia looks back down at her notebook
scene direction: xander chuckles and leans in to cordelia
xander: is this love? 'cause maybe on you it doesn't look that different.
scene direction: cordelia pushes him away
cordelia: what are you doing? are you going, like, stalker-boy on me now?
scene direction: xander confused
xander: sorry. my mistake.
cordelia: yeah, i should say so.
scene direction: he walks away. she looks at the other girls at the table.
cordelia: what is his deal?
scene change: cut to the library. giles is sitting on the table looking through a book. buffy is sitting in a chair across from him.
giles: look, here's another. here. um, 'valentine's day.' yes, uh... 'angel nails a puppy to the...' buffy:
scene direction: giles interrupts
giles: skip it.
giles: uh, but it...
buffy: i don't wanna know. i don't have a puppy. skip it.
scene direction: giles closes the book
giles: right you are. i'll get another batch.
scene direction: he gets off of the table and heads into his office. xander walks in and up to the table.
xander: i have a plan: we use me as bait.
buffy: you mean make angel come after you?
xander: no, i mean chop me into little pieces and stick me on hooks for fish to nibble at 'cause it would be more fun than *my* life.
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: i heard about you and cordy. that's her loss.
scene direction: buffy leans on the table
xander: yeah. not really the popular theory.
scene direction: buffy looks up at him
buffy: you know what i'd like? why don't you and i do something together tonight? just the two of us.
scene direction: xander does a double take
xander: really?
buffy: yeah. we can comfort each other.
xander: well, would lap dancing enter into that scenario at all? 'cause i find that very comforting.
scene direction: xander grins
scene direction: she stands up, stares into his eyes and takes a step closer to him.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: play your cards right...
scene direction: xander stops her with his hand
xander: okay, uh... you do know that i'm xander, right?
scene direction: buffy looks down
buffy: i don't know, i just...
scene direction: buffy looks up
buffy: heard that you and cordy broke up, and i guess i was just surprised how glad i was.
scene direction: buffy plays with his shirt
buffy: it's funny...
scene direction: buffy leans into him
buffy: how you can see someone every day but not really see them. you know?
scene direction: xander smiles and chuckles nervously
xander: yeah, it's funny. and it's just gettin' funnier.
scene direction: she puts her finger to his lips to quiet him and slowly leans toward him for a kiss. behind them amy walks into the library.
amy: xander, can i talk to you for a minute?
scene direction: buffy pulls back slightly. xander looks at amy, back at buffy, then at amy again.
xander: yeah, okay.
scene change: cut to the hall outside the library. amy comes out with xander right behind her. he makes sure the door is closed, looks in through the window at buffy for a second, and then gives his attention to amy.
amy: xander.
xander: yeah.
amy: i don't think the spell worked out right.
xander: oh, yeah, it bombed. no biggie.
scene direction: xander grins
amy: well, we can always try again.
scene direction: he looks back through the window and sees buffy looking out at him.
amy: i am still pretty new at this.
xander: oh, no, no, no. it's okay. you know what? it was wrong to meddle with the forces of darkness. i see that now.
scene direction: xander amy smiles at him
xander: i think we've all grown. i gotta go.
scene direction: xander moves to go back in
scene direction: amy stops him with her hand
amy: oh, we don't have to cast any spells.
scene direction: he sees buffy staring out at him with her finger between her lips.
amy: we can just... hang out.
xander: sure.
scene direction: xander looks at amy
xander: what?
scene direction: amy smiles
amy: well, i liked spending time with you. you're so sweet. you know, it's funny how you can... you can see a person every day and...
scene direction: he starts to realize what's going on.
xander: not really see them.
scene direction: he looks in at buffy again. she's still staring out at him, playing with her hair between her lips.
amy: exactly. so, anyway, i thought it might...
scene direction: another girl approaches them in the hall.
cordette: hi, xander.
xander: what?
cordette: you're in mr. baird's history class, right?
xander: yeah.
cordette: i thought maybe we could study together tonight.
scene direction: amy interrupts
amy: do you mind? we were talking.
scene direction: the two girls glare at each other. xander begins to worry.
xander: uh, i really gotta go. right now.
scene direction: he heads down the hall away from them. they both just watch him go.
scene change: cut to xander's room at home. he barges in and slams the door behind him. he calms down a bit, takes the few steps over to his bed and sits on it. behind him willow sits up from under the covers wearing one of his shirts and touches him on the back. xander jumps up in surprise and stares at her in shock.
willow: sorry. i wanted to surprise you.
scene direction: xander grins nervously
xander: good job! high marks.
willow: don't be so jumpy. i've been in your bed before.
xander: yeah, but will, we were both in footy pajamas.
willow: xand, i've been thinking.
xander: will, i, i think i know what you've been thinking. but this is all my fault. i cast a spell, and it sort of backfired.
scene direction: willow rubs the sheets
willow: how long have we been friends?
scene direction: xander very nervous
xander: a long, long time. too long to do anything that might change that now.
scene direction: willow moves to the edge of the bed
willow: well, friendships change all the time. people grow apart. they grow closer.
scene direction: willow smiles up at him
xander: uh, this is good! how close we are now. i feel very comfortable with this amount of closeness. in fact,
scene direction: xander points behind himself
xander: i can even back up a few paces and still be happy.
scene direction: xander steps back
xander: see?
scene direction: xander smiles, still nervous
scene direction: she gets up from the bed and approaches him. his shirt is the only thing she's wearing.
willow: i want you, xander...
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: to be my first!
scene direction: xander extremely nervous
xander: baseman. please tell me we're talking baseball.
scene direction: he starts to back up when she reaches him. she puts her hands up against his chest.
willow: shhh.
scene direction: he backs into the door. she rubs her hands up and down his chest.
willow: we both know it's right.
scene direction: willow leans into him for a kiss
scene direction: xander backs his head away
xander: it's not that i don't find you sexy.
scene direction: willow leans away to look at him
willow: is it oz?
scene direction: willow shakes her head
willow: don't worry about him. he's sweet, but... he's not you.
scene direction: willow rubs his chest more
xander: yes, he is. and you should go to him. 'cause he's me.
scene direction: xander grins
scene direction: she leans up to the side of his face and starts to suck on his earlobe.
scene direction: xander is sweating bullets now, having no idea how to handle this.
xander: i-i don't wanna use force.
scene direction: she lets go of his ear and leans back to face him again with a wide smile on her face.
willow: mm. force is okay!
scene direction: she tries for his ear again, but he takes her by the arms and pushes her away. she stares at him in confusion.
xander: th-that's it! this has gotta stop. it's time for me to act like a man.
scene direction: xander opens the door behind him
xander: and hide.
scene direction: xander rushes out
scene change: cut to the hall at school. cordelia comes in at the far end and walks up to her friends standing there in a huddle. they all cross their arms and face her when she arrives.
cordelia: ha. very funny. what did i do now, wear red and purple together?
harmony: you know what you did. xander is wounded because of you.
scene direction: they all walk past her in disgust. she turns around, and they face her when she speaks.
cordelia: are you tripping? i thought you wanted me to break up with him!
harmony: only a sick pup would let xander get away, no matter what her friends said.
scene direction: they all give her a huff and leave.
cordelia: what does it take to make you people happy?
scene change: cut to a pair of doors in the halls. the camera is at a low angle for a shot of xander's shoes as he pushes open the doors and walks into the hall in slow motion to the tune of "got the love" by the average white band.
lyrics: hey, yeah / got the love, got the love cut to xander staring at all the girls looking at him with love in their eyes, some giggling, some giving him sexy looks, some just watching him walk.
lyrics: mm, yeah / got the love, got the love he looks over at the other side of the hall, and it's more of the same.
lyrics: got the love, got the love / sugar baby / got the love, got the love xander keeps walking up the hall. the guys are clearly not happy that he has the attention of all the girls.
lyrics: oh, now, babe, you've been gone such a long time behind him the girls start to gather and follow.
lyrics: been thinkin' 'bout what it is we got several girls cross in front of him and check him out.
lyrics: not all the time in the world / whoo! / but got a lot xander looks around in disbelief.
lyrics: now, there's much more than a ghost of a chance more girls stare at him walking by, and he gets looks and shakes of heads from the guys.
lyrics: we can make it right this time a group of four girls starts to tail him down the hall.
lyrics: 'cause you've got to stay mine cut to the library. xander comes in, closes the door behind him and checks to see if any of the girls are following him in.
lyrics: yeah, i got the love / got the love, got the love satisfied he has no stalkers, he heads into the library to find giles as the music fades out.
lyrics: we got to make it work / got the love, got the love giles:
scene direction: lyrics comes down the stairs
lyrics: xander.
scene direction: lyrics looks at him
lyrics: what is it?
scene direction: lyrics sets his books down
xander: it, it's me... throwing myself at your mercy.
giles: what? why?
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses to clean them
xander: i made a mess, giles. see, i found out that amy's into witchcraft, and i was hurt, i guess, so i... made her put the love whammy on cordy, but it backfired, and now every woman in sunnydale wants to make me her cuddle monkey, which may sound swell on paper, but...
scene direction: jenny comes into the library behind them and strides up to giles.
jenny: rupert, we need to talk. hey, xander. nice shirt.
scene direction: jenny rubs his shirt
jenny: look, rupert, i know that you're angry at me, and i don't blame you, but i am not just gonna go away.
scene direction: jenny keeps rubbing xander's arm
jenny: i mean, i care far too much about you to...
scene direction: jenny looks at xander's arm
jenny: have you been working out? xander gives giles a 'see what i mean?' look. giles grabs jenny by the arms and pulls her away and behind him.
jenny: oh!
scene direction: she stares at xander with a look of desire in her eyes. giles looks at her, at xander, back at her, and finally back at xander.
giles: i cannot believe that you are fool enough to do something like this!
xander: oh, no, i'm twice the fool it takes to do something like this.
scene direction: jenny keeps staring at him while she plays with her necklace.
giles: has, uh... has amy tried to reverse the spell?
xander: i get around amy and all she wants to do is talk honeymoon plans.
scene direction: jenny steps toward xander
jenny: rupert, maybe i need to talk to xander alone.
scene direction: giles pushes her back
giles: do you have any idea how serious this is?
scene direction: people under a-a love spell, xander, are-are deadly. they lose all capacity for reason.
scene direction: he looks at jenny who has begun rubbing her hands over her face and neck, then down her body.
scene direction: giles to xander
giles: and if what you say is true and the entire female population is affected, i...
scene direction: giles sternly
giles: don't leave the library.
scene direction: giles jenny keeps staring
giles: i'll find amy and see if we can put a stop to this thing.
scene direction: he starts to leave the library. jenny rubs her fingers together, alone at last with xander, and sashays up to him. he steps back away from her.
scene direction: giles walks back up to them, takes jenny by the hand and pulls her out of the library behind him. jenny moans and reaches her arm out to xander as giles drags her off.
jenny: no!
scene direction: xander realizes he's finally alone without any girls around, and quickly moves to push the mobile card catalog in front of the doors in an attempt to keep it that way. as he heads back toward the table buffy pulls the door out and open and steps in wearing only a short black raincoat that reaches barely down to mid-thigh and black high heels.
scene direction: when xander hears the door swing shut and smack the card catalog behind him he spins around and stares at buffy in shock. she is standing there with one hand on the catalog and the other propped up on top of the theft detector and smiles at him as she raises her right ankle and rubs it against her left calf.
buffy: alone at last.
scene direction: xander stares open-mouthed
xander: buff, give me a heart attack!
buffy: oh,
scene direction: buffy starts a sexy walk toward him
buffy: i'm gonna give you more than that.
scene direction: buffy grabs her raincoat belt to untie it
scene direction: xander backs away, gesturing with his hands
xander: buff, for the love of god, don't open that raincoat.
buffy: come on! it's a party! aren't you gonna open your present?
scene direction: buffy undoes a button
scene direction: xander keeps backing toward the stairs nervously
xander: it's not that i don't want to. sometimes the remote impossible possibility that you might like me was all that sustained me. but not now.
scene direction: xander trips and falls backward onto the stairs
xander: not like this. this isn't real to you.
scene direction: xander buffy steps up and puts her leg over him
xander: you're only here because of a spell.
scene direction: xander gets a confused stare from her
xander: i mean, if i thought you had one clue what it would mean to me...
scene direction: xander shakes his head
xander: but you don't. so i can't.
scene direction: buffy starts to get upset
buffy: so you're saying this is all a game?
xander: a game? i... no!
scene direction: buffy angry
buffy: you make me feel this way, and then you reject me? what am i, a toy?
xander: buffy, please calm down.
buffy: i'll calm down when you explain yourself!
scene direction: amy appears behind them
amy: get away from him.
scene direction: amy buffy turns to her
amy: he's mine.
scene direction: buffy steps toward amy
buffy: oh, i don't think so.
scene direction: buffy looks back at him
scene direction: xander, tell her.
xander: what? i, uh...
amy: he doesn't have to say.
scene direction: amy buffy looks back at her
amy: i know what his heart wants.
buffy: funny, i know what your face wants.
scene direction: she swings and punches amy in the face. she falls to the floor. buffy confronts xander.
buffy: what is this, you're two-timing me?
scene direction: xander doesn't know what to say. amy gets up. her nose is bloody and her eyes have become pitch-black. she begins to weave a spell with her hands.
amy: goddess hecate, work thy will.
xander: uh-oh.
scene direction: the spell's energy swirls around her.
amy: before thee let the unclean thing crawl!
scene direction: she thrusts her arms out at buffy, and the power of the spell leaps from her hands and envelops the slayer. the energy soon dissipates.
xander: buffy!
scene direction: xander stares in utter disbelief
xander: oh, my god!
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the library. xander looks down at buffy's empty raincoat lying on the floor, then back up at amy. giles comes back into the library with jenny.
giles: what, what just happened?
scene direction: xander indicates the raincoat
xander: buffy.
scene direction: jenny smiles broadly when she sees xander and tries to go to him, but giles holds her back.
giles: where is she?
scene change: they both look down at the raincoat. cut to a shot of a sleeve. buffy has been turned into a rat, and she comes crawling out.
giles: oh, my god!
scene direction: amy steps over to xander
amy: why is she here?
scene direction: amy gestures at jenny
xander: can you focus for a minute? you just turned buffy into a rat.
scene direction: buffy starts to scamper across the floor. giles follows her with his gaze.
scene direction: amy to xander
amy: buffy can take care of herself.
scene direction: amy takes his arm
amy: why don't we go someplace private?
scene direction: jenny puts her hands on her hips and gives amy a haughty look. giles looks around for where buffy went.
scene direction: xander jerks his arm away
xander: can you... i'm not going anywhere until you change her back.
scene direction: jenny steps over to amy
jenny: you heard him. so why don't you undo your little magic trick and get lost?
amy: who made you queen of the world? well, you're old enough to be.
jenny: well, what can i say?
scene direction: jenny grabs xander by the shirt
jenny: i guess xander's just too much man
scene direction: jenny pulls him closer
jenny: for the pimple squad.
scene direction: amy puts her arm between them and pushes xander away from jenny. she waves her hands before her and begins to cast another spell. her eyes turn pitch-black, and energy begins to swirl around her as she speaks.
amy: goddess hecate, to you i pray, with this...
scene direction: xander puts his hand over amy's mouth
xander: would you quit with the hecate?!
scene direction: xander pulls her back and away
scene change: cut to the halls. cordelia is at her locker and closes it. she starts down the hall, but runs into harmony and friends waiting to confront her.
cordelia: okay, what now? you don't like my locker combination?
scene direction: harmony hands on her hips
harmony: it's just not right. you never loved him. you just used him. you make me sick.
scene direction: cordelia sarcastically
cordelia: okay, harmony, if you need to borrow my midol, just ask.
scene direction: harmony slaps cordelia across the face. she holds her hand to her face and looks at harmony in surprise. she turns to go the other way, but cordette blocks her way and pushes her up against the lockers. then she and another girl pull her away from the wall and shove her down to the floor.
scene change: cut to the library. giles has had enough and talks sternly to amy and jenny.
giles: you two, sit.
scene direction: giles amy goes to the table
giles: and be quiet.
scene direction: giles jenny joins her
giles: we have to catch the buffy rat.
scene direction: giles takes off his coat
scene direction: xander spots buffy
xander: ooo, there!
scene direction: buffy squeezes behind a bookcase as he rushes to try to catch her. amy and jenny sit down at the table across from one another, each staring at the other. xander is too late to get buffy, but he sees her crawl along the space behind the case toward the other end. he quickly crawls along the front of the case to head her off. giles watches at the end that xander just left. xander peeks around the other end of the bookcase to wait for buffy to come out.
xander: good buffy. just...
scene direction: he sees someone come up next to him and looks up. there he sees oz standing over him, and the next thing he knows oz has punched him in the face. he stumbles backward into the shelves. giles is startled and looks up as well. oz shakes out his hand. buffy makes her escape from behind the bookcase and goes out of the library doors into the hall.
scene direction: oz still shaking his hand
oz: that kinda hurt.
scene direction: xander rubbing his cheek
xander: kinda?! what was that for?
oz: i was on the phone all night, listening to willow cry about *you*. now, i don't know exactly what happened, but i was left with a very strong urge to... hit you.
scene direction: oz offers his hand to help xander up
scene direction: xander takes oz's hand and gets up
xander: i didn't touch her. i swear.
scene direction: giles upset
giles: xander! where's buffy?
scene direction: giles starts looking again
scene direction: xander to oz
xander: amy turned her into a rat.
scene direction: oz looks around
oz: oh.
scene direction: giles and xander get on their knees and look around while making squeaking noises. oz crouches down to look as well.
giles: i don't see her. if anything happens to her, i'll...
scene direction: giles looks at xander in disgust
giles: oh, just go home.
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: lock yourself away. you're only going to cause more problems here. now, amy, jenny and i will, uh... try and break the spell.
scene direction: giles the women stand up
giles: oz, if, if you could aid us in, in finding, um... buffy.
oz: sure. absolutely.
scene direction: xander starts to say something, but giles cuts him off before he can even get out a word, doing his best to control his anger.
giles: just go. get out of my sight.
scene direction: xander doesn't take it very well and stares at giles for a moment with his mouth agape, but then goes with his head hung low. oz crouches back down to look for buffy.
oz: buffy...
scene change: cut to the hall. xander comes out of the library, still looking down, when he hears cordelia cry out and looks down the hall toward her voice.
cordelia: what are you doing?! you guys are crazy!
scene direction: he sees a group of girls apparently involved in a catfight.
harmony: you thought you could do better, is that it?
cordelia: no, i...
cordette: we'll knock that snotty attitude right out of you!
scene direction: the crowd of girls opens a bit, and xander sees that it is indeed cordelia that they are attacking. he starts running toward them, and when they see him coming several of them break off and come at him, screaming and shouting. in their lust they try to grab him as the others push cordelia to the floor. he fights his way through them and over to cordelia, where one girl has begun pulling at her hair.
cordelia: ow! stop!
scene direction: when he reaches her, he pushes the hair-pulling girl aside, picks up cordelia from the floor into his arms and shakes the girls off as he runs from the hall. they all chase after him.
scene change: cut to the library. jenny paces while giles sits at the table and goes through some books. amy, seated opposite him, wipes the blood from her nose.
giles: you must have botched the ritual so that cordelia's necklace actually protected her from the spell. th-th-that one should be easily reversible. w-w-where did you learn animal transformation?
scene direction: amy looks up at giles
amy: why did you send xander away?
scene direction: amy giles puts his hands to his eyes in despair
amy: he needs me.
scene direction: jenny chortles
jenny: that's a laugh.
scene direction: amy to jenny
amy: he loves me. we look into each other's souls.
jenny: no one can love two people at once. what *we* have is real.
giles: instead of making me ill, why doesn't one of you try to help me?
scene direction: amy looks back into her pocket mirror
amy: you have no idea what i'm going through.
scene direction: giles gets up
scene direction: giles to amy, sternly
giles: i know it's not love. it's obsession. selfish, banal obsession.
scene direction: giles jenny starts out of the library
giles: now, xander has put himself in very great danger. if you cared at all about him, you'd help me save him, rather than wittering on about your feelings.
scene direction: amy looks away from him. jenny goes out the door. giles pokes his fingers into the book in front of amy.
giles: now, let's get on with some work.
scene direction: giles turns to jenny
giles: now, jenny...
scene direction: giles sees she's gone
giles: great!
scene change: cut to an exit from the halls to outside. xander and cordelia come running out.
xander: i think we...
scene direction: xander sees a crowd of girls waiting for them
xander: lost 'em.
scene direction: willow is at the front of the crowd holding a large fire ax.
willow: i should've known i'd find you with her.
xander: will... come on, you don't wanna hurt me.
willow: oh, no? you don't know how hard this is for me. i love you so much! i'd rather see you dead than with that bitch.
scene direction: she raises the ax and advances toward him. the others start toward him as well. harmony and her friends come running out of the hall now, too, and confront the crowd. the girls all scream and yell as they fight.
scene direction: harmony grabs willow's ax and wrestles her for it.
harmony: get away from him! he's mine!
scene direction: as the girls all fight xander and cordelia make their escape. when the girls realize they've gone they start to give chase.
scene change: cut to the school basement door standing ajar. buffy scampers in and hops down each step. she makes her way over to the boiler room. oz has managed to track her and comes down the steps behind her with a flashlight. when he reaches the bottom of the steps he scans around, looking for where she went. buffy goes into the boiler room, and oz soon follows. a cat sees buffy and meows meanly at her. buffy squeaks and runs off. the cat chases after her.
scene change: cut to buffy's street. xander and cordelia come running down it and slow to a walk.
xander: okay, now i really think we've lost them.
cordelia: damn it, xander, what's going on? who died and made *you*
scene direction: elvis?
scene direction: xander sees the house
xander: buffy's house. let's get inside. i'll explain later.
scene direction: they run up to the door and xander knocks fast and loud, looking back to see if the crowd of girls has found them yet. cordelia joins in the knocking.
scene direction: cordelia frantic
cordelia: come on!
scene direction: joyce opens the door
joyce: xander, cordelia, what...
scene direction: they push their way in past her.
cordelia: yeah, hi.
scene direction: she slams the door shut behind her, and she and xander look out the small windows in the door to make sure there's still no one following them.
scene direction: cut inside the kitchen. xander walks in with joyce and cordelia close behind.
joyce: what happened? why are you all scratched up? where's buffy?
xander: she's, um... around.
scene direction: joyce gestures to a stool
joyce: well, sit down and tell me about it.
scene direction: joyce xander sits
scene direction: joyce to cordelia
joyce: why don't you run upstairs and grab some bandages out of the bathroom?
scene direction: cordelia goes down the hall toward the stairs. joyce looks at xander again.
joyce: let me, uh, get you something to drink. you in the mood for cold or hot?
xander: i, uh...
scene direction: xander shrugs with his hands
scene direction: joyce walks around behind him
joyce: i think it's
scene direction: joyce starts rubbing his shoulders
joyce: more of a *hot* night, don't you?
scene direction: joyce leans in and giggles
scene direction: xander drops his head to the table
xander: whatever.
scene direction: joyce massages his shoulders
joyce: ooo, you are so tense.
scene direction: joyce kisses his neck
joyce: mm.
scene direction: cordelia comes back
cordelia: what are you doing? make me yak!
scene direction: joyce defensive
joyce: cordelia, go back upstairs. this is between us.
cordelia: gross! i think not.
scene direction: she grabs joyce by the arm and pushes her back toward the door and opens it.
joyce: what are you doing? hey! get your hands off me!
scene direction: cordelia pushes her out of the door, slams it shut and locks it.
cordelia: and keep your mom-aged mitts off my boyfriend. former!
scene direction: cordelia to xander
cordelia: why has everyone gone insane?
xander: insane? is it so impossible for you to believe that other women find me attractive?
cordelia: the only way you could get girls to want you would be witchcraft.
xander: that is such a...
scene direction: xander concedes
xander: well, yeah, okay, good point.
scene direction: joyce breaks one of the kitchen door windowpanes.
cordelia: oh, my god!
scene direction: joyce reaches in and feels around for the lock.
joyce: xander, honey, let joycie in. hon, let joycie in!
scene direction: xander gets up, takes hold of cordelia and leads her out of the kitchen at a run.
xander: upstairs! buffy's room!
scene direction: joyce finds and works the lock
joyce: sweetheart...
scene change: cut to buffy's room. they run in, and cordelia slams the door shut.
scene direction: xander goes to the window and checks outside.
xander: good. the mob still hasn't found us. we should be safer up here.
scene direction: just as he looks back from the window angelus grabs him from outside.
angelus: works in theory.
scene direction: he pulls xander out onto the roof.
scene direction: cordelia terrified
cordelia: xander!
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the boiler room at school. the cat has apparently gone or been chased away. buffy crawls around, trying to find the source of a scent. the camera pans behind some crates over to a trap baited with cheese.
scene change: cut to the roof outside of buffy's window. angelus grabs xander by the shirt.
angelus: where's buffy?!
scene direction: cordelia comes up to the window and looks out at them.
xander: cordy, get outta here!
scene direction: angelus throws him off of the roof to the lawn below. he leaps down after him and stands over him.
angelus: perfect.
scene direction: angelus grabs xander and pulls him up
angelus: i wanted to do something special for buffy, actually to buffy, but this is *so* much better!
scene direction: xander knees him in the crotch, but angelus isn't fazed. he flips xander over backward onto the grass again. he bends down, grabs xander's hair and lifts his head up.
angelus: if it's any consolation, i feel very close to you right now.
scene direction: a hand grabs angelus by the shoulder, pulls him up and throws him aside into a tree. he hits it hard and slides down to the ground. xander jumps to a conclusion and looks up at his savior.
xander: buffy, how...
drusilla: don't fret, kitten.
scene direction: drusilla helps him up
drusilla: mummy's here.
angelus: i don't know what you're up to, dru, but it *doesn't* amuse!
scene direction: she growls at angelus and he growls back.
drusilla: if you harm one hair on this boy's head...
scene direction: drusilla strokes his hair
angelus: you've gotta be kidding. him?
drusilla: just because i finally found a *real* man...
scene direction: drusilla turns xander to face her
angelus: i guess i really *did* drive you crazy.
scene direction: angelus backs away
scene direction: drusilla runs her fingers over xander's lips
drusilla: your face is a poem.
scene direction: drusilla moans
drusilla: i can read it.
scene direction: xander terrified
xander: really? it doesn't say 'spare me' by any chance?
drusilla: shhh.
scene direction: drusilla kisses him
drusilla: how do you feel about eternal life?
scene direction: xander trembles with fear
xander: we couldn't just start with a coffee? a movie, maybe?
scene direction: she grabs his hair and jerks his head to the side, exposing his neck.
scene direction: she moves in to bite him, but gets distracted by the screams of the mob of women running at them. willow leads them with her ax. jenny and the rest are right behind. some of the others have weapons as well.
girl: there he is! get them!
jenny: he's mine! get off!
scene direction: drusilla lets go of xander. willow shoves her aside. jenny jumps onto xander and knocks him to the ground. all the girls are screaming.
scene direction: several of them including harmony begin to paw at him. willow stands over him with her ax. cordelia comes out of the house and rushes toward the mob. xander gets pinned down, and willow raises her ax to strike.
willow: all you had to do was love me!
cordelia: no!
scene direction: she grabs the ax and shoves willow over and onto the ground, then tries to free xander.
cordelia: get out of the way! move it! get off him!
scene direction: she pushes the one that has him pinned down off of him, grabs his hand and pulls him up.
cordelia: back off!
scene direction: she pushes him ahead of her, and they start to run back to the house.
scene change: they just manage to slam the door in the faces of their pursuers. cut to outside the door to the kitchen. drusilla hits it with both hands, and it goes crashing to the floor. two girls rush in beside her.
girl: i love you!
scene direction: when drusilla tries to follow an unseen force prevents from entering the house. angelus watches from behind her.
angelus: ahh! sorry, dru.
scene direction: angelus she turns to face him
angelus: i guess you're not invited.
scene change: cut to xander and cordy inside the front door. joyce comes up behind them holding a large knife.
joyce: it's never gonna work for us, xander. we have to end it.
scene direction: the other two girls come up behind her. cordelia yells out in fright as xander pulls her away from the door. cut inside the basement. xander and cordelia rush in. he pulls the door closed behind him and hooks it shut.
scene change: cut to the boiler room. oz continues scanning with his flashlight.
oz: here, buffy.
scene change: cut to the trap. the camera pans up from it over to a pile of rags.
scene direction: buffy climbs over the pile and heads for the trap.
scene change: cut to the science lab. giles and amy have a beaker of brew going over a bunsen burner. giles checks everything and is satisfied.
giles: right.
scene direction: giles to amy
giles: go on. you first.
scene change: cut to the basement at buffy's house. the door is being yanked at violently. xander has hammered a couple of boards across the doorframe and looks back at cordelia.
xander: gimme a nail!
scene direction: she hands him a nail and he goes back to hammering.
cordelia: if we die in here i'm gonna kick your ass! i mean it!
scene direction: xander looks back at her
xander: none of this would've happened if you hadn't broken up with me. but no, you're so desperate to be popular!
scene direction: xander hammers
cordelia: me? i'm not the one who embraced the black arts just to get the girls to like me. well, congratulations, it worked!
scene direction: xander looks at her
xander: would've worked fine, except your hide's so thick, not even magic can penetrate it!
scene direction: xander hammers
scene direction: she is surprised by that, and reaches out to him. he turns to face her again.
cordelia: you mean the spell was for me?
scene direction: they look at each other for a moment, then a knife blade stabs through the door. cordelia screams, and they both run down the steps. once at the bottom they hear glass breaking and see a hand reach in through the basement window.
scene direction: girl reaching in
girl: oh, please let me touch you!
scene change: cut to the boiler room. buffy crawls onto the trap.
scene change: cut to the science lab. amy begins her chant.
amy: goddess of creatures great and small, i conjure thee to withdraw.
scene change: cut to the boiler room. oz continues looking for buffy. cut to the lab.
amy: hecate, i hereby license thee to depart.
scene change: giles sprinkles a powder into the beaker and it sparks. cut to the boiler room. a bright light begins to flash from behind the crate where buffy is. oz holds up his flashlight and squints against the light. in a few seconds it's over.
oz: buffy?
scene direction: she raises her head and looks around from behind the crate.
scene change: cut to the basement at the summers house. cordelia screams as she and xander run into the area where the washer and dryer are. willow finally gets the door open.
cordelia: oh, my god!
scene direction: xander spots a large pipe wrench and grabs it to use as a weapon.
xander: stay behind me.
scene direction: willow ducks under the boards xander nailed across the doorframe and starts down the stairs. joyce is right behind her with her knife. a crowd of girls follows them. cordelia and xander retreat into the corner by the water heater.
scene change: cut to the lab at school. giles takes a pinch of an herb from a jar.
giles: um... diana, goddess of love, be gone.
scene direction: he puts the herb into the brew and it sparks.
giles: hear no more thy siren's song.
scene change: cut to buffy's basement. willow leads the way in. when they find xander and cordelia they all charge them, screaming and shouting. they knock xander and cordelia to the floor. the two of them have to fight off the girls' grabbing hands.
cordelia: get off!
scene direction: willow has dropped her ax and paws at them like the others. xander struggles to keep from being torn apart.
scene change: cut to the lab. giles waves cordelia's pendant over the brew and drops it in. suddenly a cloud of energy appears above them, and they have to hold on to the lab table to keep from being knocked down. the energy draws in from the windows and spirals down into the beaker. as quickly as it was there it's gone.
scene change: cut to the basement. the gang of girls stops struggling. cordelia pushes one of them away.
cordelia: get off me!
scene direction: they all stand up and look around at each other.
girl: what's going on? where am i? what's going on?
scene change: cut to the boiler room. buffy stands up and oz raises his flashlight and shines it on her. she looks down at herself. he immediately raises the light away from her and turns it off. she hugs her arms around herself to cover up.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: hi, oz!
oz: hi.
buffy: i seem to be having a slight case of nudity here.
oz: but you're not a rat. so call it an upside.
buffy: you think maybe you could get me some clothing?
oz: yes, i can. just, uh... don't go anywhere.
scene direction: oz leaves
scene direction: buffy looks around
buffy: really not an issue.
scene change: cut to joyce's basement. everyone is still confused. joyce looks around at all the people in her basement.
joyce: what... what did we...
scene direction: cordelia thinking quick
cordelia: boy, that was the best scavenger hunt ever.
scene direction: she and xander smile at everyone lamely.
scene change: cut to the halls at school the next day. xander and buffy come walking around the corner and continue toward the library.
buffy: scavenger hunt.
xander: your mom seemed to buy it.
buffy: so she says. i think she's just so wigged at hitting on one of my friends that she's repressing. she's getting pretty good at that. i should probably start worrying.
xander: well, i'm back to being incredibly unpopular.
buffy: it's better than everyone trying to ax-murder you, right?
xander: mostly, but, uh... willow won't even talk to me.
buffy: any particular reason she should?
xander: how much groveling are we talking here?
buffy: oh, a month, at least.
scene direction: buffy they stop and face each other
buffy: xander, come on, i mean... this is worse for her than anyone. she loved you before you invoked the great roofie spirit. the rest of us...
xander: you remember, huh?
buffy: oh, yeah. i remember coming on to you, i remember begging you to undress me... and then a sudden need for cheese. i also remember that you didn't.
xander: need cheese?
buffy: undress me. it meant a lot to me what you said.
xander: c'mon, buffy, i couldn't take advantage of you like that. okay, for a minute, it was touch and go there...
buffy: you came through. there might just be hope for you yet.
xander: well, tell that to cordelia.
buffy: you're on your own there.
scene direction: she goes off down the hall leaving xander alone.
scene change: cut to the colonnade. cordelia, harmony and friends come walking around under the balcony and head toward the foot of the stairs.
harmony: cody weinberg called me at home last night.
cordelia: cody weinberg? the one with the 350sl?
harmony: the very one. said he's thinking of asking me to the pledge dance on thursday.
cordelia: that's so huge!
harmony: yeah, there's just two other girls he's gonna ask first, and if they refuse, then i'll...
scene direction: xander bumps into harmony as they round the corner to the stairs.
harmony: watch it!
xander: sorry.
harmony: god!
scene direction: harmony looks him up and down
harmony: y'know, i'm glad your mom stopped working at the drive-through long enough to dress you.
scene direction: harmony to cordelia
harmony: oh, that reminds me.
scene direction: harmony xander starts away
harmony: did you see jennifer's backpack?
scene direction: it is *so* a crying...
scene direction: cordelia interrupts
cordelia: harmony, shut up.
scene direction: cordelia xander looks back
cordelia: do you know what you are, harmony? you're a sheep.
harmony: i'm not a sheep.
cordelia: you're a sheep. all you ever do is what everyone else does just so you can say you did it first. and here i am, scrambling for your approval, when i'm *way* cooler than you are 'cause i'm *not* a sheep. i do what i wanna do, and i wear what i wanna wear. and you know what?
scene direction: cordelia xander smiles
cordelia: i'll date whoever the hell i wanna date. no matter how lame he is.
scene direction: xander's smiles fades at that. cordelia leaves the group and goes over to him. he smiles again. when she reaches him she takes his arm and they start walking together along the colonnade.
scene direction: cordelia breathing hard with anxiety
cordelia: oh, god! oh, god!
scene direction: xander pats her hand
xander: you're gonna be okay. just keep walkin'.
cordelia: oh, god, what have i done? they're never gonna speak to me again!
xander: oh, sure, they are. if it helps, whenever we're around them you and i can fight a lot.
cordelia: you promise?
scene direction: xander takes her hand in his
xander: you can pretty much count on it.
scene direction: they both smile as they continue walking 