scene direction: angel's apartment. buffy and kendra are faced off, ready to continue their fight.
scene direction: buffy out of breath
buffy: okay, one more time. you're the who?!
kendra: i'm de slayer.
buffy: nice cover story. but here's a tip: you might wanna try it on someone who's not the real slayer.
kendra: ya can't stop me! even if ya kill me, anodder slayer will be sent to take me place.
buffy: could you stop with the slayer thing? i'm the damn slayer!
kendra: nonsense! dere is but one, and i am she.
buffy: okay,
scene direction: buffy sniffs
buffy: a scenario.
scene direction: buffy holds up her hand
buffy: you back off, i'll back off, but you promise not to go all wiggy until we can go to my watcher and figure this out.
kendra: wiggy?
buffy: you know. no kick-o, no fight-o?
scene direction: kendra considers the offer a moment, then relaxes her stance and crosses her arms.
kendra: i accept your scenario.
buffy: so. you were sent here?
kendra: yes, by my watcher.
buffy: to do what, exactly?
kendra: to do my duty. i am here to kill vampires.
scene change: cut to the back room at willy's bar. the camera pans from the window over to the cage. the sunlight has advanced past the cage door and is only about three feet from the far wall. angel is crouched in the far corner, cowering and afraid. he looks up at the light coming through the window.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: the library. kendra stands at attention as giles paces. buffy just leans on a chair with her left hand and has her right hand on her hip.
giles: and your watcher is, i-is sam zabuto, you say?
kendra: yes, sir.
giles: we've never met, but he, he's, he's very well-respected.
buffy: what, so he's a real guy? as in non-fictional?
giles: and you are called...?
kendra: i am de vampire slayer.
buffy: we got that part, hon. he means your name.
kendra: oh. dey call me kendra. i have no last name, sir.
scene direction: buffy haughty
buffy: can you say 'stuck in the 80's'?
giles: buffy, please. uh, there's obviously some, some misunderstanding here.
scene direction: willow comes bouncing into the library with a smile on her face. kendra marches around buffy to intercept her.
scene direction: willow greets them
willow: hey!
kendra: identify yourself!
scene direction: willow is taken aback and her smile fades to a frown.
buffy: back off, pink ranger! this is my friend.
kendra: friend?
buffy: yeah. as in person you hang with? amigo?
kendra: i don't understand.
scene direction: buffy to giles, exasperated
buffy: you try. i'm tapped.
scene direction: buffy sits
giles: uh-uh, kendra, uh, there are a-a-a few people, uh, ci-civilians if you like, who, who know buffy's identity. willow is one of them, a-a- and they also, um, spend time together, uh, socially.
kendra: and you allow dis, sir?
giles: well, uh...
kendra: but de slayer must work in secret for security.
giles: of course, uh, but, uh, with buffy, however, it-it's, um, some flexibility is required.
scene direction: buffy gives giles a look.
kendra: why?
scene direction: willow confused
willow: hi, guys. w-what's goin' on?
scene direction: willow goes to sit across from buffy
buffy: apparently there's been a really big mix-up.
giles: uh, it seems somehow that, uh, another slayer has been sent to sunnydale.
willow: is that even possible? i mean, two slayers at the same time?
giles: not to my knowledge. um, th-the new slayer is only called after the previous slayer has died. uh...
scene direction: giles realizes
giles: oh, good lord! you were dead, buffy.
buffy: i was only gone for a minute.
giles: clearly it doesn't matter how long you were gone. you were physically dead! thus causing the activation of the, the next slayer.
scene direction: giles nods toward kendra
kendra: she died?
buffy: just a little.
giles: she drowned, but she was revived.
willow: so there really are two of them!
giles: it would seem so. this is completely unprecedented! i'm quite flummoxed.
scene direction: giles sits
buffy: what's the flum? it's a mistake, she isn't supposed to be here, she goes home!
scene direction: buffy to kendra
buffy: look, no offense, i really don't mean this personally, but i'm not dead, and frankly having you around creeps me out just a little bit.
kendra: i cannot just leave. i was sent here for a reason. mr. zabuto said all de signs indicate dat a very dark power is about to rise in sunnydale.
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: and what's your great plan for finding this dark power? you just gonna attack people randomly till you find a bad one?
kendra: of course not.
buffy: then why the hell did you attack me?
kendra: i tought you were a vampire.
buffy: oh, a swing and a miss for the rookie.
scene direction: buffy walks around kendra to willow
kendra: i had good reason to tink you were. did i not see you kissing a vampire?
scene direction: willow stands up in her defense
willow: buffy would never do that!
scene direction: willow realizes
willow: oh.
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: except for that sometimes you do that.
scene direction: willow to kendra
willow: but only with angel.
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: right?
scene direction: willow sits again
buffy: yes! right.
scene direction: buffy to kendra
buffy: look, you saw me with angel, and he is a vampire, but he's good.
kendra: angel? you mean angelus? i've read about him. he is a monster.
giles: no, no, no, he's, he's good now.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: really!
buffy: he had a gypsy curse.
kendra: he has a what?
buffy: y'know what, just trust me on this one, okay? he's on the home team now.
kendra: i cannot believe you. he looked to me just like anodder animal when i...
buffy: when you what?
scene direction: buffy confronts her
buffy: what did you do to him?
kendra: i...
buffy: what did you do?!
scene change: cut to the back room of willy's bar. angel leans against the back wall, weakened by the ambient light. willy comes in and looks at him. he opens the cage door and walks in. he uses his body to shade angel from the direct sunlight and drags him out of the cage and into another storage room. there he opens a hatch in the floor to the sewers below and drops angel down into the shallow water. angel is too weak to get up on his own. willy lowers himself through the hatch and drops to the water, too.
scene direction: he's unhappy about the fact that his shoes have just been ruined. spike walks into the light from the shadows.
willy: there you go, friend. he'll be as good as new in a day or so.
scene direction: two of spike's thugs arrive to drag angel away. willy holds up his hands to stop them.
willy: uh, hey, wai-wait. we had a deal, right?
scene direction: spike pulls out a wad of cash
spike: what's the matter, willy? don't you trust me?
scene direction: spike starts handing him bills
willy: oh, yeah. like a brother.
scene direction: spike slaps him across the cheek.
spike: talk and i'll have your guts for garters.
willy: wild horses couldn't drag it.
scene direction: spike holds up the last bill, crumbles it and drops it into the water.
spike: oops! sorry, friend.
scene direction: willy bends over to pick up the bill as the two thugs grab angel and drag him off.
willy: what are you gonna do with him anyway?
spike: i'm thinkin' maybe dinner and a movie. i don't want to rush into anything. i've been hurt, you know.
scene direction: he follows his goons down the sewer. willy counts his money again.
scene change: cut to buffy's house. cut to the foyer. norman's case is open and cordelia is going through the samples.
cordelia: do you have anything in raisin? i know you wouldn't think so, but i'm both a winter and a summer.
norman: nine ninety-nine, tax included.
cordelia: you said that already. do you have anything in the berry family?
norman: are there more ladies in the house?
cordelia: oh, no, they're not home.
scene direction: cordelia faces him
cordelia: you know, nothing personal, but maybe you should look into selling dictionaries, or... some...
scene direction: she sees a mealworm crawl out of his sleeve and onto his hand. xander comes back down the stairs and sees norman. cordelia slowly backs away from him.
xander: hey, what's up?
cordelia: um, he's a salesman, and he was just leaving, right? uh, okay! buh-bye! thank you!
scene direction: xander reaches up to guide him out
xander: okay, mary kay, time to...
scene direction: another mealworm crawls across norman's cheek and into his right ear.
scene direction: xander backs away.
xander: time to run!
scene direction: he breaks into a run, guiding cordelia away with him as norman transforms into a mass of mealworms. they quickly crawl across the floor. xander and cordelia run into the kitchen for the back door, but norman is already there, reassembled and waiting for them. cordelia screams, and xander grabs her hand and pulls her back into the hall.
scene direction: they open the door to the basement and hurry in, closing the door behind them. the mealworms try to come under the door, but they stomp on them.
xander: find something to cover the crack under the door!
scene direction: he grabs a broom and sweeps the mealworms back under the door with it.
cordelia: uhh...
scene direction: cordelia finds a roll of duct tape
cordelia: here! i don't do worms.
scene direction: he gives her an exasperated look, grabs the roll from her and shoves the broom into her hands.
xander: cover me!
scene direction: she sweeps at the mealworms while he pulls a length of tape off of the roll and sticks it to the bottom of the door.
cordelia: eww! eh! eh!
scene change: cut to the back room of willy's bar. buffy barges through the door.
buffy: angel?!
scene direction: kendra walks into the cage where she left him and looks around.
kendra: no ashes.
buffy: what?
kendra: when a vampire combusts, he leaves ashes.
buffy: yeah, i know the drill.
kendra: so i did not kill him.
buffy: and i don't need to kill *you*.
scene direction: willy shows up at the door.
willy: whoa! there's a lotta tension in this room.
scene direction: kendra attacks him and pushes him out of the back room and onto the floor.
buffy: doesn't anyone just say 'hello' where you come from?
scene direction: kendra turns willy over on the floor and grabs him by the shirt, ready to punch.
kendra: dis one is dirty! i can *feel* it!
buffy: that's really good for you, percepto girl,
scene direction: buffy lifts him up
buffy: but we're not gonna get anything out of him if he's, oh, say,
scene direction: buffy slams him into the bar
buffy: unconscious.
scene direction: buffy to willy
buffy: where's angel?
willy: my buddy angel? you think i'd let him fry? i saved him in the nick! he was about five minutes away from being a crispy critter.
buffy: where'd he go?
willy: uh, he said he was gonna stay underground. you know, recuperate.
buffy: are you telling me the truth?
willy: i swear on my mother's grave! should something fatal happen to her, god forbid.
kendra: den he is alright. we can return to your watcher for our orders.
scene direction: buffy lets go of willy
buffy: i don't take orders. i do things my way.
kendra: no wonder you died.
scene direction: buffy ignores the comment
buffy: let's go.
scene direction: they start to leave. willy steps away from the bar.
willy: i, i have to ask.
scene direction: willy the girls looks back
willy: has either of you girls considered modeling? i have a friend with a camera? strictly high-class nude work. you know, art photographs. but naked.
scene direction: buffy and kendra exchange a look and just walk out without a word.
willy: you don't have to answer right away.
scene change: cut to drusilla's bed. she's asleep. spike bends over her and strokes her hair. she wakes.
scene direction: drusilla moans
drusilla: i was dreaming.
spike: of what, pet?
drusilla: we were in paris. you had a branding iron.
spike: i brought you something.
scene direction: he goes over to the stairs and picks angel up from the landing.
drusilla: and there were worms in my baguette.
scene direction: spike drags angel in
spike: your sire, my sweet.
scene direction: spike dumps him on the floor
drusilla: my angel?
scene direction: spike comes back to the bed
spike: the one and only. now all we need's the full moon tonight, and he will die, and you will be fully restored.
scene direction: spike takes her hand, whispers
spike: my black goddess.
scene direction: spike kisses her hand
spike: my ripe,
scene direction: spike works his way up her arm
spike: wicked plum.
scene direction: spike raises his head
spike: it's been...
drusilla: forever.
scene direction: they kiss passionately. angel watches from the floor, all tied up and gagged. he strains against his bonds. they break off their kiss.
drusilla: spike, let me have him. hmm? until the moon.
scene direction: spike smiles
spike: alright, you can play, but don't kill him. he mustn't die till the ritual.
drusilla: bring him to me.
scene direction: spike picks angel up from the floor and forces him over to drusilla. she grabs him by the chin and looks him in the eye.
drusilla: you've been a very bad daddy.
scene direction: she slaps him across the face. angel is powerless to do anything.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: sunnydale high. giles, kendra, willow and buffy come down the outside stairs and head into the halls.
giles: kendra, i-i've, uh, conferred with your watcher, mr. zabuto, and, uh, we both agree that, uh, until this matter with spike and drusilla has been resolved that you two should work together.
buffy: oh, that'll be a treat.
kendra: so, you believe dat spike is attempting to revive dis drusilla to health?
giles: yes, well, i-i-i-i think that's the, uh, the dark power that your, your watcher re-referred to. you see, uh, you see drusilla's not only evil, she's, uh, well, she's also quite mad, and-and-and-and if she's restored to her full health, then, uh, well, there's no, absolutely no telling what she might do.
kendra: den we will stop spike.
buffy: ooo, good plan, let's go, charge!
giles: buffy...
buffy: it's a little more complicated than that, john wayne.
giles: yes, i'm, i'm afraid it is. you see, spike has also called out the order of taraka to keep buffy out of the way.
kendra: de assassins? i read of dem in de writings of dramius.
giles: oh, really? w-w-which volume?
scene direction: they exit the hall and walk along the colonnade.
kendra: i believe it was six, sir.
buffy: um, how do you know all this?
kendra: from me studies.
buffy: so, obviously you have a lot of free time.
kendra: i study because it is required.
scene direction: kendra giles smiles
kendra: the slayer handbook insists on it.
willow: there's a slayer handbook?
buffy: wait. handbook? what handbook? how come i don't have a handbook?
willow: is there a t-shirt, too?
scene direction: willow gets a look from buffy
willow: 'cause that would be cool...
scene direction: willow rolls her eyes
giles: after meeting you, buffy, i realized that, uh, the handbook would be of no use in your case.
buffy: well, what do you mean it would be of no use in my case? wha- what's wrong with my case?
giles: uh, kendra, um, perhaps you'd like to show me the, the part in, uh, dramius six where, uh, uh, where it refers to the order of taraka. really, i-i, i seem to have never been able to get through that book. it was a bit stodgy.
scene direction: kendra smiles
kendra: it was difficult. all dose footnotes.
scene direction: giles and kendra laugh out loud.
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: hello, and welcome to planet pocket protector.
giles: oh, well, b-buffy, principal snyder was snooping round after you.
scene direction: buffy stops
buffy: eee. career fair.
giles: best make an appearance, i think.
buffy: right.
kendra: buffy's a student here?
giles: yes.
kendra: riiight, of course. and i imagine she's a cheerleader as well.
giles: oh, no, well, a-a-actually she had to give up her cheerleading.
scene direction: giles gets a look from kendra
giles: uh, it was quite an amusing story, actually.
scene direction: uh, uh, let's go and find the book, shall we?
scene direction: the two of them head off to the library. buffy and willow continue their walk.
buffy: get a load of the she-giles.
willow: creepy.
buffy: ew. i'll bet giles wishes i was more of a book geek.
willow: giles is enough of a book geek for the both of you.
buffy: yeah, but did you see how they were vibing?
scene direction: buffy mocks them
buffy: volume six, ha, ha, ha!
willow: buffy, no one could replace you. you'll always be giles' favorite.
buffy: i wonder.
willow: of course, you will. you're *his* slayer. the *real* slayer.
buffy: no. i wonder if it would be so bad, being replaced.
willow: you mean, like, letting kendra take over?
buffy: maybe. i mean, maybe after this thing with spike and the assassins is over, i could say, 'kendra, you slay, i'm going to disneyland.' willow: but not forever, right?
buffy: no, disneyland would get boring after a few months. but i could do other stuff. career day stuff. maybe i could even have a normal life.
scene change: cut to buffy's basement. cordelia is pacing.
xander: could you sit down, or change your pattern or something? you're making me queasy.
scene direction: cordelia leans on the washer
cordelia: because you're just sitting there. you should be thinking up a *plan*.
xander: i have a plan. we wait. buffy saves us.
cordelia: how will she even know where to find us?
xander: cordelia, this is buffy's house. odds are she'll find us.
cordelia: well, what if she doesn't? what am i supposed to do? just waste away down here with you? haw, haw, no thank you!
scene direction: cordelia makes tracks for the stairs
scene direction: xander gets up to stop her
xander: what are you doin'?
scene direction: cordelia stops and faces him
cordelia: going to see if he's gone!
xander: that's brilliant! what if he isn't?
cordelia: oh, right! you think we should just slack here and hope that somebody else *decides* to be a hero?
scene direction: cordelia goes back to the washer
cordelia: sorry, forgot i was stranded with a loser!
scene direction: cordelia leans and crosses her arms
xander: and yet i never forgot that i'm stuck with the numb-brain that let mr. mutant in the house in the first place!
cordelia: he looked normal!
xander: what, is he supposed to have an arrow with the word 'assassin' over his head?! all it took was the prospect of a free makeover, and you licked his hand like a big, dumb dog!
cordelia: you know what?
scene direction: cordelia heads for the stairs again
cordelia: i'm going.
scene direction: xander just raises his eyebrows, ready to let her go. she stops at the foot of the stairs and faces him again.
cordelia: i'd rather be worm food than look at *your* pathetic face!
xander: then go! i'm not stopping ya!
cordelia: i bet you wouldn't! i bet you'd let a girl go off to her doom all by herself!
xander: not just any girl.
scene direction: xander nods
xander: you're special.
cordelia: i can't believe that i'm stuck spending what will probably be my last few moments on earth here with you!
xander: i *hope* these are my last few moments! three more seconds with you, and i'm gonna...
scene direction: xander steps closer
scene direction: cordelia steps closer
cordelia: i'm gonna what? coward!
xander: moron!
cordelia: i *hate* you!
xander: i hate you!
scene direction: they look at each other for another second before grabbing each other and engaging in a mad, passionate kiss. it goes on for several seconds before they suddenly release each other and look at each other in surprise.
xander: we *so* need to get outta here.
scene direction: cordelia nods
cordelia: mm-hm!
scene direction: she rushes up the stairs with xander right behind. they stop at the top, crouch down and give each other anxious looks. xander grabs one end of the tape and pulls it off. there aren't any worms on the other side.
scene direction: xander moves the broom aside and opens the door slowly. they both look out into the hall for any sign of the mealworms.
cordelia: he's gone.
scene direction: xander steps out and peeks around the corner down the hall to the dining room. the coast looks clear, so xander makes a dash for the front door.
scene direction: cordelia follows a moment later, and when she comes through the dining room door mealworms begin falling onto her from the ceiling. she screams as they fall on her en masse and runs for the door. cut outside. xander throws the door open and dashes into the front yard. cordelia follows him out, screaming.
cordelia: xander, oh my god! get them off of me!
scene direction: xander turns to look.
cordelia: get 'em off!
scene direction: he runs for the hose.
scene direction: cordelia terrified
cordelia: get 'em off of me! oh, my god, get 'em off me!
scene direction: cordelia screams
scene direction: xander grabs the hose and starts spraying the mealworms off of her. she keeps screaming and turns her back to him, then her front again. he keeps spraying as she tries to brush them off. she turns around again to let him spray her back again and reaches down the back of her dress to get some mealworms out. she turns back around.
cordelia: okay, okay, let's get outta here! xander, let's go!
scene direction: he keeps spraying her in spite of her protests.
cordelia: okay! let's go!
scene change: she runs for her car. xander follows her with the hose for another instant, then drops it and follows her. cut to a close-up of her license plate, "queen c". she floors it, and they burn rubber into the street.
scene direction: further down the block she screeches round the corner.
scene change: cut to the halls at the school. buffy and willow stroll along past the career fair displays.
buffy: my tests say that i should look into law enforcement -- duh! -- and environmental design.
willow: environmental design. that's landscaping, right?
buffy: i checked the 'shrub' box. but landscaping was yesterday, so law enforcement it is.
scene direction: they stop near the steps to the couches in the lounge. buffy looks around and notices oz looking over at willow.
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: hey, will, don't look, okay, but...
scene direction: buffy willow looks
buffy: no, don't look!
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: that guy over there is totally checking you out.
scene direction: willow looks with her eyes
willow: oh, that's oz. he's expressing computer nerd solidarity.
scene direction: oz gets up and starts to walk over.
buffy: really? then why is he on his way over here right now?
scene direction: willow is surprised when she sees him coming.
buffy: told you!
scene direction: buffy makes a discreet exit
oz: hey.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: hey!
scene direction: willow notices
willow: your hair! is brown!
oz: oh, yeah, sometimes. so, uh, did you decide? are you gonna be a corporate computer suit guy?
willow: oh. uh, well, i-i think i'm gonna finish high school first.
scene direction: what about you?
oz: i'm not really a computer person, you know. or a work of any kind person.
willow: they why'd they select you?
oz: oh, i sorta test well. y'know, which is cool. e-except that it leads to jobs.
willow: well, don't you have some ambition?
oz: oh, yeah! yeah. e-flat, diminished ninth.
willow: huh?
oz: well, the e-flat, it's, it's doable, but that diminished ninth, y'know, it's a man's chord. now, you could lose a finger.
scene direction: willow nods, pretending to understand.
scene change: cut to buffy. she signs up at the law enforcement table and joins the group. patrice, the recruitment officer, picks up the clipboard and looks it over.
patrice: alright, listen up, and answer when i call your name. buffy summers.
scene direction: buffy raises her hand. patrice calmly puts the clipboard back down.
scene direction: quickly she draws her gun and aims it at buffy. buffy reacts in a flash and pushes the recruiter's hands and weapon up into the air as the first round goes off. panic sets in throughout the hall, and people start to run and duck for cover. buffy keeps struggling with the officer, and another round goes into the ceiling. she knees her in the gut, and she drops the gun and falls to the floor. buffy starts to run as patrice gets to her knees and pulls out her backup gun. another bullet flies at buffy as she dives over a table. she stands up again and looks around at everyone.
buffy: get down!
scene direction: she starts to run again, right past oz and willow. patrice follows buffy with her aim.
oz: look out!
scene direction: he lunges for willow and pulls her to the floor with him, but takes the next bullet meant for buffy in the arm. patrice keeps following buffy with her gun and shoots off the cranium of a skeleton. buffy has disappeared down the hall, and the police recruiter carefully makes her way to the wall to peek around it down the hall. she doesn't see her, but senses that she's there, and decides to go to the other end of the wall to come around the other side. the camera pans to the other side where buffy is leaning against the wall, breathing hard and waiting for patrice to make her next move. when she is about to come around the other corner, buffy leaps over a table and tackles her to the floor. she drops her backup gun and it slides away. buffy gets to her feet and adopts a fighting stance. patrice gets back to her knees, pulls out her small ankle backup and aims it at buffy as she stands back up. before she can get off a round kendra kicks the gun out of her hands. she follows it up with a kick to patrice's face, making her fall flat on her back. she makes her stand next to buffy. patrice grabs jonathon as a hostage, pulls out a short blade and threatens him with it. the two girls watch her slowly back toward the door at the end of the hall with the boy in tow. halfway there she drops jonathon and makes a dash for the door. kendra doesn't hesitate to give chase. buffy rushes over to oz and willow and kneels down next to them. oz is holding his arm.
buffy: how is he?
willow: he's shot!
scene direction: willow to oz
willow: are you okay?
oz: i, uh, i'm shot!
scene direction: oz takes his hand away briefly and chuckles
oz: y'know.
scene direction: oz laughs
oz: wow! it's odd! and painful.
scene direction: buffy gets up again when kendra shows back up.
kendra: she's gone.
jonathon: w-was that a demonstration?
scene direction: buffy looks around at the scene.
scene change: cut to the library. giles has the first-aid kit out, and willow is wrapping buffy's knee.
buffy: she was definitely one of the taraka gang, giles, and way gun happy.
giles: this, um, oz chap, he, he, he's alright?
willow: the paramedic said it was only a scrape. thank goodness.
scene direction: cordelia and xander walk into the library. kendra tries to head them off.
buffy: down, girl!
xander: who sponsored career day today? the british soccer fan association?
scene direction: giles on his way to the table
giles: we had a, a rather violent visit from the order of taraka.
xander: you wanna talk order of taraka? we just met the king *freak* of the...
scene direction: xander sees kendra
xander: hello.
scene direction: kendra looks at the floor, humbling herself before xander.
giles: oh, forgive me. uh, xander, cordelia, this is kendra. uh, i-it's rather complicated, but she's also a slayer.
scene direction: cordelia heads for the table
cordelia: hi. nice to meet you.
xander: a slayer, huh?
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: i knew this 'i'm the only one, i'm the only one' thing was just an attention-getter.
scene direction: buffy hops off of the counter
buffy: just say hello, xander.
scene direction: buffy makes for the table with willow
xander: welcome. so! you're a slayer, huh? i like that in a woman.
scene direction: kendra nervous
kendra: uh... i hope... i tank you... i mean, sir, um... i will be of service.
scene direction: xander looks at the others
xander: great!
scene direction: xander to kendra
xander: good. it's good to be a giver.
scene direction: xander goes to the table
giles: xander, um, this, this, uh, assassin you encountered, what, uh, what did he look like?
scene direction: cordelia finds a mealworm in her hair and freaks out. she drops it onto a book on the table and gets up.
cordelia: uhh! uhh! ohmigod, i'm showering!
scene direction: cordelia runs from the library
scene direction: xander indicates the mealworm
xander: like that.
buffy: you and bug people, xander. what's up with that?
xander: no, but this dude was completely different than praying mantis lady. he was a man *of* bugs, not a man who *was* a bug.
scene direction: he slams the biology book shut on the mealworm to kill it and sits down.
giles: the, uh, the-the-the important thing is everybody's alright. still, it's quite apparent that we're under serious attack.
buffy: these taraka are definitely serious.
scene direction: buffy looks at kendra
buffy: fortunately for me, so is kendra.
giles: and, uh, i fear the worst is still to come. i've, i-i've discovered the remaining keys to drusilla's cure. the, uh, the ritual requires that, the presence of her sire, and it must take place in a church on the night of the new moon.
scene direction: buffy suddenly looks very concerned.
kendra: the new moon. but that is tonight.
giles: exactly. and i-i'm sure the assassins were here to kill buffy before she could put a stop to things.
buffy: they need drusilla's sire. you mean the vamp that made her?
giles: yes.
willow: buffy, what is it?
scene direction: buffy looks down
buffy: angel. he's drusilla's sire.
xander: man, that guy got major neck in his day!
scene direction: willow slaps him hard on the shoulder.
buffy: will this ritual kill him?
giles: yes, i'm afraid it will.
buffy: we need to find this church. we need to find where this ritual is gonna take place!
giles: agreed, and we must work quickly.
scene direction: giles checks his watch
giles: we have five hours before sundown.
scene direction: willow opens her laptop
willow: don't worry, buffy, we'll save angel.
kendra: angel? but our priority is to stop drusilla!
xander: angel's our friend! except i don't like him.
buffy: look, you've got your priorities, and i've got mine. right now they mesh. so, are you gonna help me, or are you gonna get out of my way?
scene direction: kendra considers
kendra: i'm wit you.
buffy: good. 'cause i've had it. spike is going down. you can attack me, you can send assassins after me, that's fine. but nobody messes with my boyfriend!
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: drusilla's room. she runs her hand across the lid of an elegant wooden box labeled 'holy water'. she sings quietly as she lifts the lid and takes out a small crystal pitcher.
drusilla: the lamb is caught in the blackberry patch.
scene direction: drusilla approaches angel
drusilla: my mummy ate lemons. raw.
scene direction: she kneels next to him. angel is tied to the posts of her canopy bed by both wrists high above his head.
drusilla: she said she loved the way they made her mouth...
scene direction: drusilla runs her hand down and up his chest
drusilla: tingle. little anne.
scene direction: she lets some of the holy water trickle onto his chest. it steams and burns like acid. angel jerks his head back in pain and stifles a scream.
drusilla: her favorite was custard... brandied pears.
angel: dru...
scene direction: drusilla sternly
drusilla: shhh!
scene direction: drusilla stands up
drusilla: and pomegranates.
scene direction: drusilla climbs onto the bed behind angel
drusilla: they used to make her face and fingers aaall red.
scene direction: she reaches over his shoulder and lets more holy water dribble onto his chest. again angel grits his teeth in pain, but won't let himself scream out loud.
drusilla: remember? hmm? little fingers. little hands. do you?
scene direction: angel shivering in pain
angel: if i could...
scene direction: drusilla interrupts angrily
drusilla: bite your tongue! they used to eat cake, and eggs, and honey.
scene direction: drusilla sweetly
drusilla: until you came and ripped their throats out.
scene direction: she pours the rest of the holy water onto his chest, and angel screams out loud in agony.
scene change: cut to the library. giles comes out of the stacks and heads toward the stairs with a large volume full of pictures. willow is sitting on the steps websurfing on her laptop. he looks down at her screen and sits down next to her.
giles: there are forty-three churches in sunnydale?
scene direction: giles pulls out a roll of mints
giles: that seems a little excessive.
scene direction: giles tears off some wrapping
willow: it's the extra evil vibe from the hellmouth. makes people pray harder.
scene direction: giles offers her a mint, and she smiles and takes one. he gets back up and continues over to xander and cordelia at the table.
giles: well, check and see if any of them are closed or abandoned.
xander: yeah, yeah, we got monsters, we got demons, but no bug dude or police lady.
scene direction: giles sets the volume down in front of them and opens it.
giles: well, you should have better luck with this one. there's a whole section devoted to the order of taraka.
scene change: cut to giles' office. kendra looks through the window at them doing their research. buffy is sharpening a knife.
kendra: and dose two, dey also know you are de slayer?
buffy: yep.
kendra: did anyone explain to you what 'secret identity' means?
scene direction: kendra goes to the desk
buffy: nope. must be in the handbook.
scene direction: buffy kendra picks up the crossbow
buffy: right after the chapter on personality removal. be careful with that thing!
kendra: please. i'm an expert in all weapons.
scene direction: the bolt flies off of the crossbow and breaks a lamp. buffy startles.
scene direction: giles heard the noise from the main room.
giles: is everything alright?
buffy: yeah, it's okay. kendra killed the bad lamp.
kendra: sorry! dis, uh, trigger mechanism is different.
scene direction: kendra sets the bow down
kendra: perhaps when dis is over you can, uh, show me how to work it.
buffy: when this is over i'm thinking pineapple pizza and teen video movie fest. possibly something from the ringwald oeuvre.
scene change: cut to the main room. xander turns the page and finds a drawing of the bug dude.
xander: oh, here we go! i am the bug man, coo coo ka choo.
scene direction: giles and willow come over to have a look. xander reads in another book.
xander: okay. okay. he can only be killed when he's in his disassembled state.
scene direction: xander to cordelia
xander: disassembled. that means when he's broken down into his liiittle buggy parts.
cordelia: i know what it means, *dorkhead*.
scene direction: xander takes mock offense
xander: dorkhead! you slash me with your words!
scene direction: giles rubs his eyes. willow raises her eyebrows at them.
scene change: cut to the office. kendra is handling a stake.
kendra: your life is very different dan mine.
buffy: you mean the part where i occasionally have one? yeah, i guess it is.
scene direction: buffy carves at a stake
kendra: de tings you do and have, i was taught, distract from my calling. friends, school... even family.
buffy: even family?
kendra: my parents, dey sent me to my watcher when i was very young.
buffy: how young?
kendra: i don't remember dem, actually. i've seen pictures. but, uh, dat's how seriously de calling is taken by my people. my modder and fadder gave me to my watcher because dey believed dat dey were doing de right ting for me, and for de world.
scene direction: kendra puts down the stake and gets a sympathetic look from buffy
kendra: please, i don't feel sorry for meself. why should you?
buffy: i don't know, i... i guess it just sounds very lonely.
kendra: emotions are weakness, buffy. you shouldn't entertain dem.
buffy: kendra, my emotions give me power. they're total assets!
scene direction: kendra picks up her knife
kendra: maybe. for you. but i prefer to keep an even mind.
scene direction: kendra wipes the blade
scene direction: buffy puts down her knife
buffy: mm. i guess that explains it.
kendra: explains what?
scene direction: buffy plays with the stake
buffy: oh, well, when we were fighting, uh, you're amazing! your technique, it's flawless, it's, hmm, better than mine.
kendra: i know.
buffy: still, i woulda kicked your butt in the end. and ya know why? no imagination.
scene direction: kendra rubs her blade more vigorously
kendra: really? ya tink so?
scene direction: kendra puts down the rag
buffy: oh, i know so. you're good, but power alone isn't enough. a good fighter needs to know how to improvise, to go with the flow. uh-uh, seriously, don't get me wrong, y-you really do have potential.
scene direction: buffy puts away the stake
scene direction: kendra holds her knife ready
kendra: potential? i could wipe de floor wit you right now!
scene direction: buffy looks kendra in the eye
buffy: that would be anger you're feeling.
kendra: what?
buffy: you feel it, right? how the anger gives you fire? a slayer needs that.
scene direction: they both look over at xander as he walks into the office.
xander: excuse me, ladies.
scene direction: kendra looks down at the floor while he grabs a book from the desk.
scene direction: xander notices her knife.
xander: nice knife.
scene direction: xander leaves the office
buffy: i'm guessing dating isn't big with your watcher either.
kendra: i'm not permitted to speak with boys.
buffy: unless you're pummeling them.
scene direction: buffy has a realization
buffy: wait a minute.
kendra: what?
buffy: that guy! the sleazoid you nearly decked in the bar.
kendra: you tink he might help us?
buffy: i tink we might make him!
scene change: cut to drusilla's room. she is kneeling between angel's spread-apart legs and holds the little pitcher of holy water above him.
drusilla: say 'uncle'.
scene direction: drusilla lowers the pitcher
drusilla: oh, that's right, you killed my uncle.
scene direction: she is about to pour some onto his chest again when spike comes in.
spike: that's it, then.
scene direction: spike drusilla looks up at him
spike: off to church.
scene direction: drusilla stands up
drusilla: it makes pretty colors.
spike: pft! i'll see him die soon enough. i've never been much for the pre-show.
scene direction: he reaches up to untie one of angel's bonds while drusilla puts away the holy water and gets miss edith.
angel: too bad. that's what drusilla likes best, as i recall.
spike: what's that supposed to mean?
scene direction: spike steps over to the other bond
angel: ask her. she knows what i mean.
scene direction: drusilla has come back to stand behind spike's shoulder, and he turns his head to face her.
spike: well?
scene direction: drusilla to angel
drusilla: shhh! grrrruff! bad dog.
angel: you shoulda let me talk to him, dru. sounds like your boy could use some pointers. she likes to be teased.
scene direction: spike has finished untying the other bond and throws it to the floor.
spike: keep your hole shut!
scene direction: spike stands over him
angel: take care of her, spike. the way she touched me just now? i can tell when she's not satisfied.
spike: i said shut up!
scene direction: he grabs angel by the throat, lifts him to his feet and holds him against the bedpost.
angel: or maybe you two just don't have the fire we had.
spike: that's enough.
scene direction: he pounds his other hand into the wooden railing of drusilla's bed, grabs the piece that broke off and holds it up to stake angel.
drusilla: spike, no!
scene direction: spike holds back. angel tries to goad him on with a stare. drusilla steps over to spike and gently puts her arm on his shoulder and snuggles up to him.
drusilla: shhh.
spike: oh! right. right, you almost got me! aren't you a 'throw himself to the lions' sort of sap these days. well, the lions are on to you, baby. see, if i kill you now you go quick, and dru hasn't got a chance. and if dru dies your little rebecca of sunnyhell farm and all her mates are spared her coming-out party.
scene direction: spike squeezes angel's throat
drusilla: spike, the moon is rising. it's time.
spike: too bad, angelus. looks like you go the hard way. along with the rest of this miserable town.
scene direction: he keeps holding angel against the bedpost as he and drusilla engage in a passionate kiss.
scene change: cut to willy's bar. buffy shoves him up against the shelves of liquor bottles.
willy: ah! honest! i don't know where angel is!
buffy: what about this ritual? what have you heard?
willy: n-nothing! i-it's all hush-hush!
kendra: just hit him, buffy!
scene direction: buffy to willy
buffy: she likes to hit.
willy: you know, m-maybe i did hear something about this ritual. yeah, i-i... i-it's coming back to me. but, uh, i'd have to take you there.
buffy: let's go.
scene direction: buffy starts to drag him out of the bar
kendra: first we must return to de watcher.
scene direction: buffy stops
buffy: excuse me? while we run to giles, this whole thing could go down!
kendra: but it is procedure.
buffy: it's brainless, you mean! if we don't go now, angel could die.
scene direction: buffy starts out again
kendra: is dat all you're worried about? your boyfriend?
scene direction: buffy stops again
buffy: no, it's not all, but it's enough.
kendra: it's as i feared. he clouds your judgment. we can't stop dis ritual alone!
buffy: are you listening to me? he could die!
kendra: he's a vampire. he *should* die. why am i de only person who sees it?
scene direction: buffy just stares at her a moment before turning around again and heading for the door with willy in tow.
kendra: are you dat big a fool?
scene direction: buffy shoves willy out ahead of her and leaves kendra behind in the bar.
scene direction: kendra exhales
kendra: good riddance, den.
scene change: cut to the church. cut inside. willy leads her down an arched hallway.
willy: here ya go. don't ever say your friend willy don't come through in a pinch.
scene direction: they round a corner, and patrice and a vampire are waiting there for them.
willy: here ya go. don't ever say your friend willy don't come through in a pinch.
scene direction: norman and another vampire block her escape from behind.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the nave of the church. spike walks up the main aisle from the altar with a burning incense censer.
spike: eligor. i name thee. bringer of war, poisoners, pariahs, grand obscenity.
scene direction: he turns back to the altar. angel and drusilla are both strapped together to a chain that hangs from the ceiling. angel's right hand is tied to the chain above his head.
spike: eligor, wretched master of decay, bring your black medicine.
drusilla: black medicine.
scene direction: spike sets the censer down on the altar and picks up the du lac cross with his gloved hand.
spike: come.
scene direction: spike holds up the cross upside-down
spike: restore your most impious, murderous child.
drusilla: murderous child.
scene direction: he grabs the downward-pointing tip of the cross with his other hand and yanks down, pulling out a dagger. he lays the rest of the cross back on the altar.
spike: from the blood of the sire she is risen.
scene direction: he takes drusilla's left hand and raises it to angel's, and she clasps it.
spike: from the blood of the sire, she shall rise again.
scene direction: with one swift stroke spike stabs the blade through their hands. angel screams in agony. a blindingly bright pink light emanates from their wounds. a pulse of energy spreads out, and then the light dies back down to a faint glimmer as angel's strength begins to ebb from him into drusilla. she droops backward, feeling angel's energy flow into her.
spike: right, then! now we just let them come to a simmering boil, and remove to a low flame.
scene direction: willy barges through the door and strides into the nave with the vampires and assassins escorting buffy close behind.
willy: it's payday, pal. i got your slayer.
scene direction: spike strides up the aisle to meet him.
scene direction: spike angry
spike: are you tripping?! you bring her here?! now?!
willy: you said you wanted her.
scene direction: buffy sees angel and drusilla tied together at the altar.
spike: in the ground, pinhead! i wanted her dead.
willy: now, that's not what i heard. word was there was a bounty on her dead or alive.
spike: you heard wrong, willy.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: angel.
spike: yeah.
scene direction: spike steps over to buffy
spike: it bugs me, too, seeing him like that. another five minutes, though, and angel will be dead, so... i forebear. don't feel too bad for angel, though, he's got something you don't have.
scene direction: buffy angry
buffy: what's that?
spike: five minutes. patrice!
scene direction: she lets go of buffy and draws her gun. buffy struggles to get loose from the vampire holding her. the other door suddenly bursts open, and kendra comes in doing a series of backflips, ending in a flying double kick, one foot to the back of each of the vampire's heads. they fall to the floor, pushing buffy into spike and knocking him down. kendra lands on her feet, ready to fight. she wastes no time running over to spike as he gets up, meeting buffy there to fight him.
spike: who the hell is this?!
scene direction: kendra grabs him by the shirt.
buffy: it's your lucky day, spike.
kendra: two slayers!
scene direction: kendra decks him
buffy: no waiting!
scene direction: buffy jabs him
scene direction: spike falls but quickly gets up. buffy breaks off to fight patrice, leaving kendra to take care of spike. he ducks a roundhouse kick from her. buffy faces off with patrice. she extends her arms down, and a blade slides out from each sleeve. one of the vampires gets up from the floor next to them and starts to reach for buffy when a bolt impales him. he falls and turns to ashes while giles looks on from the door, still holding the crossbow. buffy and patrice begin to fight hand-to- hand. patrice thrusts one blade, then the other at buffy, but she catches her arms and holds them up while she knees patrice in the stomach. buffy follows up with a kick to her face and sends her stumbling back into the wall. spike lands a punch on kendra, knocking her down, and she scrambles to avoid his follow-up kick. the other vampire gets up also, and giles runs to engage him. he swings the crossbow at him, but the vampire grabs it, and they struggle over it.
scene direction: giles swings at the vampire and hits him in the face. willow jumps up onto his back and starts choking him with her arm. xander spots norman and taunts him.
xander: hey, larvae boy!
scene direction: xander norman sees him
xander: yeah, that's right, i'm talkin' to you, ya big cootie!
scene direction: norman smiles and starts after him. xander scrambles for the doors and carefully steps through as he closes them behind him to avoid stepping into the puddle of liquid adhesive cordelia has poured there. she still has the bucket in her hand.
xander: welcome, my little pretties!
scene direction: norman comes under the door as a mass of mealworms. back inside giles punches the vampire twice while willow keeps holding on. kendra jumps over spike when he tries to knock her legs out from under her. she tries another roundhouse kick, but he blocks it. he uses the momentum of the block to spin around and hit her again. patrice gets back up and comes for buffy. she ducks a kick from buffy and lunges at her with her blades, but buffy handily blocks her. she swings at buffy's face with one, but buffy ducks out of the way. out in the hall the mealworms have gotten stuck in the adhesive and xander and cordelia begin to stomp them. inside kendra swings at spike and is blocked. spike lands another hit on her. buffy punches patrice in the face and sends her staggering back into the wall again. spike punches kendra again, and follows up with a roundhouse kick. she hits the floor and scrambles back up again.
scene direction: buffy notices her getting knocked around.
buffy: switch!
scene direction: she bends over and kendra rolls over her back to face patrice, immediately landing a punch and knocking her into the wall a third time.
scene direction: buffy faces spike.
spike: i'd rather be fightin' you anyway.
buffy: mutual.
scene direction: she blocks his thrust, then kicks him in the face and again in the gut.
scene direction: he doubles over and falls to the floor. in the hall cordelia and xander continue stomping away.
cordelia: die! die, die, die! die!
scene direction: xander puts his hand on her lower back to calm her.
xander: i think he did, cordy.
scene direction: she drops the bucket and they run off. inside, buffy blocks a punch from spike, and another, but then he lands punches to her stomach and face.
scene direction: she blocks his next swing and holds his arm while she punches him twice in the face. she grabs his coat and pulls him around and throws him over several pews and into the wall. behind another pew willy gets up. spike growls as he stands back up and sees willy trying to sneak out of the church. he rushes over and grabs him by the back of the neck.
spike: where are you going?
scene direction: buffy seizes the opportunity to run to the altar and pull the dagger out of angel and drusilla's hands.
willy: now, there's a way in which this isn't my fault!
spike: they tricked you.
willy: mm-hm! they were duplicitous!
spike: well, then i'll only kill you just this once.
scene direction: spike goes for the bite
scene direction: drusilla weakly
drusilla: spike!
scene direction: spike stops before biting willy and looks over at her. he sees buffy trying to untie them. he lets go of willy and rushes over to the altar, grabs buffy and shoves her to the floor. he backhand punches her as she gets back up, knocking her down again. willy wastes no time running out of the church past willow and giles, who are still fighting the other vampire. giles has him held back by both arms and willow has a stake raised to kill him.
willow: hold him steady!
scene direction: she plunges the stake into the vampire's heart and he bursts into ashes, leaving giles all dusty. xander and cordelia run into the back of the nave as willow pats the dust off of giles. patrice throws kendra over a knocked-over pew and climbs over after her. she swings at kendra twice, but misses both times when kendra ducks. she swings again and this time slashes her in the arm. kendra grabs her wound and looks down at it.
kendra: dat's me favrit shirt! dat's me *only* shirt!
scene direction: now kendra is really mad, and she kicks patrice in the back of the knee, making her lose her balance. she grabs patrice by the arm and throws her into a cabinet in front of the organ, smashing it to pieces and knocking her out. kendra runs over to join the others. spike takes a torch from its wall hanger and throws it into a pile of old drapes, setting them ablaze.
xander: look out!
