scene direction: the cemetery. the camera closes in on the top of the perimeter wall. a pair of hands hook over the top, and buffy pulls herself up. she coughs while she pulls her legs over. she jumps down the other side. when she hits the ground she can't keep her balance, and has to use her hands to keep from toppling over. she breathes heavily through her mouth because her nose is stuffed up. every now and then she sniffles. she pulls a stake out of her jacket. she puts her hand on her forehead and moans as she stands up. slowly she starts to make her way across the graveyard.
scene change: cut to in front of her. the camera follows her as she walks, still sniffling and rubbing her nose. she senses something and tries to concentrate while she slowly approaches a small mausoleum. she raises her stake and jumps around the corner, swinging it to strike at whatever's there. xander screams and reflexively jumps back, holding on tightly to his own stake. cordelia lets out a high-pitched scream behind him. willow is there, too, and the girls both reflexively hold up crosses at buffy.
buffy: non-vampire. plus two.
scene direction: willow sternly as she puts her cross away
willow: hi.
scene direction: they all step out into the open.
xander: man, buffy! my whole life just flashed before my eyes!
scene direction: xander glances over at willow
xander: i gotta get me a life!
buffy: what are you doing here?
willow: what are *you* doing here?
buffy: well, i'm patrolling!
scene direction: willow concerned
willow: buffy, you're sick.
buffy: no, i feel fine. i mean, i'm... the world's spinning a little bit, but i like it, it's kinda like a ride.
cordelia: half the school's out with this flu. it's a serious deal, buffy. we're all concerned about how gross you look.
scene direction: buffy with a hint of sarcasm
buffy: i'm touched. really. but i have work to do.
willow: buffy, come on, one night of rest is not gonna kill you.
buffy: no, but it might kill somebody else.
scene direction: xander points at her with his stake
xander: you mean angel might.
scene direction: xander buffy turns away
xander: buffy, this is not the time to challenge angel for the ultimate fighting championship.
scene direction: xander gestures with his stake
xander: he's at full strength, you're only half a slayer.
buffy: yeah, but i'm still the slayer. and as long as i am, angel's not gonna kill anybody else.
scene direction: angelus behind her
angelus: aw, c'mon.
scene direction: angelus she turns to face him
angelus: just one more.
scene direction: he attacks, and the girls scream. he runs right past buffy straight for cordelia and tackles her to the ground. buffy grabs him by the back of his coat and pulls him off of her. she turns him around, takes him by the coat collar and swings at him with her stake. he blocks her with his arm, grabs hers and makes her drop the stake.
angelus: not feeling well, lover?
scene direction: buffy looks up at him and punches him in the jaw. he glares back at her and tries to kick her, but she grabs his foot and shoves his leg up, making him fall hard onto his back.
buffy: that helps.
scene direction: angelus scrambles to all fours. she comes at him from behind and tries to kick him, but he kicks out with his leg into her chest, and she staggers back a ways until she regains her balance. he gets up and comes toward her. she takes a couple of swings at him, but he evades them easily. he blocks a third, grabs her arm and takes her by the throat.
angelus: you know, you being off your game's kinda takin' the fun out of all this.
scene direction: he punches her in the face, and she stumbles backward again.
angelus: nope, still fun!
scene direction: he punches her in the gut, then grabs her by the neck and shoves her around and into a corner column of the small mausoleum. she is dazed and tries to regain her balance, but doesn't get a chance because angelus wastes no time punching her in the face and knocking her flat on her back. he gets on top of her and pins her arms down.
angelus: uh-oh. this does *not* look good for our heroine.
scene direction: he starts to bend down to bite her, but just then willow throws xander's jacket over angelus' head. as she backs away, xander grabs his head under the jacket, punches him and knees him twice in the face. angelus falls over onto his back. willow and cordelia pull out their crosses and hold them out at him as he gets up, and he has to back off.
xander: take a walk, overbite.
scene direction: buffy gets to her feet. angelus slowly backs away.
angelus: we'll have to do this again sometime.
scene direction: he turns and walks off. buffy just watches him go.
xander: buffy, are you okay?
scene direction: buffy puts her hand to her forehead
buffy: i told you guys to leave, i...
scene direction: buffy getting dizzy
buffy: i... oh...
scene direction: she falls to the ground unconscious.
xander: buffy!
scene direction: willow and cordelia turn to look.
willow: buffy?
scene direction: xander kneels next to her and looks at the fallen slayer.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: the sunnydale hospital emergency room. the camera pans from an empty gurney past the admissions desk and over to the entrance. xander rushes in with buffy in his arms. willow and cordelia are right behind him.
xander: we need help!
willow: somebody, please, now!
scene direction: intern approaches them
intern: what happened?
scene direction: they all speak at once.
xander: she fell.
willow: the flu.
cordelia: she fainted.
scene direction: a nurse brings over the gurney.
xander: the flu, fainted and fell. she's sick, make it better!
scene direction: intern pulls the gurney up
intern: it's gonna be okay. let's get her up.
scene direction: xander lays buffy out on the gurney. the intern takes out his pocket light and checks buffy's eyes for a response. the nurse takes notes while he speaks as they start to wheel her into the emergency room. they all follow.
intern: patient's unconscious... pupils are unequal and unresponsive.
cordelia: what does that mean?
willow: is she gonna be okay?
intern: please, you gotta give us some room.
scene direction: dr. wilkinson arrives
dr. wilkinson: what do we have?
intern: high-grade fever, possible fractures.
dr. wilkinson: get her into trauma 1, give her a cbc, chem 7, type and screen.
intern: right.
scene direction: the intern and nurse take her through the doors to the emergency room beyond. they all try to follow, but dr. wilkinson blocks their way.
dr. wilkinson: i'm sorry, you can't go any further.
xander: someone should be with her!
dr. wilkinson: i'm sorry! you can't go any further.
scene direction: she backs in and closes the door in their faces. they look through windows for a couple of seconds. willow reacts first.
willow: i'll call giles, tell him what happened.
scene direction: willow to cordelia
willow: you call buffy's mom, tell her, n-not what happened, just get her here.
scene direction: the two of them go to find the phones. xander keeps looking in through the emergency room door, where he can see the doctor and intern still working on buffy. he looks away as they wheel buffy into trauma 1.
scene change: cut to later. cordelia, xander and willow are sitting on a row of chairs in the waiting room with worried looks on their faces. the camera pans over to the door where giles is also waiting and nervously cleaning his glasses. the camera continues to pan over to the elevator. the door opens and joyce comes out. she sees them sitting there.
joyce: where is she?
scene direction: they all get up. giles comes over also.
giles: she's still in the emergency room.
joyce: i wanna see her.
scene direction: joyce starts out of the waiting room
cordelia: they won't let us in there.
scene direction: joyce stops and looks back at her. just then dr. wilkinson comes to the door.
dr. wilkinson: mrs. summers?
scene direction: joyce faces her
joyce: yes?
dr. wilkinson: i'm dr. wilkinson.
joyce: is buffy okay?
dr. wilkinson: we were able to stabilize and...
scene direction: joyce interrupts insistently
joyce: is she okay?
scene direction: dr. wilkinson reassuringly
dr. wilkinson: she's going to be fine.
scene direction: joyce with relief
joyce: thank you.
scene direction: joyce puts her hand to her face
xander: good. good.
scene direction: xander rubs his hands
xander: that's good.
dr. wilkinson: i wanna keep her here a few days, though. she still has some healing to do.
scene direction: giles and joyce look at her anxiously.
scene change: cut to a hall upstairs near buffy's assigned hospital room. they are all waiting for her to be brought up. when they see her coming they all approach the bed. she has an iv in her right hand. her left forearm is wrapped in an elastic bandage.
joyce: buffy?
scene direction: joyce reaches the bed
joyce: hi, sweetheart.
scene direction: they all accompany her toward her room.
xander: hey, buffy, we're all here.
scene direction: buffy groggy
buffy: hey. here we are. it's all of we. are we taking me home?
scene direction: buffy tries to get up
scene direction: dr. wilkinson pushes her back
dr. wilkinson: no. buffy, you need to lie down, honey.
scene direction: buffy groggy
buffy: yeah? lie at home. my bed is better than any bed that's... not my bed.
scene direction: dr. wilkinson looks at joyce
dr. wilkinson: she's still a little out of it.
scene direction: joyce nods back.
scene direction: buffy to xander
buffy: shhh!
scene direction: buffy points at him
buffy: hospital zone. no singing.
dr. wilkinson: she'll feel better after
scene direction: dr. wilkinson buffy looks at her
dr. wilkinson: she's been here a while.
buffy: no!
scene direction: buffy tries to get up again
buffy: lemme go. look, i wanna go.
scene direction: the orderly pushing the bed, two nurses and dr. wilkinson struggle to get her to lie back down. buffy puts up a fight.
willow: buffy, what's wrong?
buffy: no! no! let me go!
cordelia: i think she wants to go.
scene direction: they manage to get her pushed back down on the bed.
buffy: no, don't do that! stop it!
dr. wilkinson: hold her steady!
scene direction: buffy delirious
buffy: giles, tell them!
orderly: i got her.
buffy: the vampires! i need to kill the vampires!
dr. wilkinson: this'll help you relax.
scene direction: she puts a needle against buffy's inside elbow and injects her with a sedative. xander throws giles a concerned look. cordelia cringes and looks away.
buffy: ow!
scene direction: buffy winces in pain
buffy: no!
scene direction: when the doctor pulls the needle back out she lies back and breathes heavily.
xander: it's gotta be the fever.
willow: yeah, it made her delusional.
scene direction: buffy to giles insistently
buffy: they're out there!
scene direction: giles smiling reassuringly
giles: yes, uh, well, we'll, uh, we'll get those, uh, vampires later.
scene direction: giles laughs lightly, looks at joyce
giles: i hear it's best t-to play along.
scene direction: giles keeps smiling
scene direction: the sedative takes effect and buffy begins to relax. one of the nurses checks her iv. her mother leans in and strokes her hair.
joyce: honey, listen...
buffy: i wanna go home.
joyce: it's gonna be okay. i promise.
scene direction: they start to wheel her away again.
buffy: please don't make me stay here...
joyce: i *promise*.
scene direction: they all follow as buffy is taken to her room. they wait outside. the door closes and xander looks in through the narrow window. after a moment he looks over at giles.
xander: that was a new experience. i'm not used to seeing buffy scared like that.
joyce: yeah, she just *hates* hospitals. ever since she was a little girl.
willow: what happened?
joyce: when she was eight her cousin celia died in a hospital. buffy was alone with her at the time.
cordelia: yuk!
joyce: yeah, they were very close.
willow: wow, and she was eight?
scene direction: joyce looking in at buffy
joyce: well, it looks like she's asleep. i should go call her father.
scene direction: joyce heads toward the nurse's station
scene direction: giles accompanies her
giles: um, i-i think there's a, a phone...
scene direction: the camera follows them.
joyce: thank you for coming. i-i *really* appreciate the way you look out for her.
giles: oh...
joyce: *all* of you.
giles: well, we're, uh, we're very fond of her.
scene direction: giles they stop at the nurse's station
giles: the, uh, the telephone.
scene direction: giles starts away
joyce: i, i...
scene direction: joyce stops him
joyce: i hope i'm not out of line, but... i-i-i wanted to say how sorry i am about, uh, that teacher, ms. calendar. buffy said you were close.
scene direction: giles nods slightly
giles: oh, uh...
scene direction: giles looks down
giles: thank you.
scene direction: giles looks up
scene direction: joyce exhales
joyce: buffy's been so down since it happened. i mean, she never gets sick.
scene direction: giles looks down
giles: well, i'm sure she'll be, uh...
scene direction: giles looks up, smiles reassuringly
giles: she'll be fine.
joyce: i'm sorry, i, i babble when i'm nervous, i just wanted to... well, if, if you need anything...
scene direction: giles nods
giles: thank you.
scene direction: giles quietly
giles: thank you.
scene direction: giles walks off
scene direction: joyce turns to the nurse to ask to use the phone.
scene change: cut to outside buffy's door.
xander: do you think she's gonna be okay in here?
scene direction: cordelia pacing
cordelia: i don't know, lysette got her nose done here, and she came in looking for the gwyneth paltrow, and it looked more like the mr. potatohead.
scene direction: she steps over to the door and looks into buffy's room.
xander: cordy...
willow: buffy's not here for cosmetic surgery.
cordelia: no, but while she's in here, she might as well get that thing done.
scene direction: willow gives xander a look.
cordelia: you know, that thing on her face?
scene direction: cordelia faces them
cordelia: you know that thing.
scene direction: willow to xander
willow: do you think angel will attack buffy in here?
xander: he can come in, it's a public building.
scene direction: willow worried
willow: that's true.
cordelia: am i the only one that's noticed that thing?
scene change: cut to the hospital at night. cut to buffy's room. she stirs in her bed.
scene change: the clock on the nightstand changes to read 2 27am. cut to her iv slowly dripping in. the led on the heart monitor next to the iv blinks steadily. the camera pans down from it to buffy's face. she takes a deep breath as she wakes up. she blinks her eyes several times before looking over at the door. it's standing open, and a young boy is there just silently staring in at her. a few moments later he starts away down the hall. she continues to look out the door, and a man in a black suit and hat walks by.
scene change: cut to a closeup of the man. he glances into buffy's room as he walks by. she sees his face. it's all disfigured, his nose is long and bent down to a point, his teeth are all long fangs, and his fingers are grossly elongated. he looks back after the boy and continues to follow him out of view. buffy raises her head in disbelief. she pushes her hair back with her bandaged hand and slowly sits up. she gets out of bed and steadies herself to a stand. she ties her robe closed as she walks out of the room.
scene change: cut to the hall. it's deserted except for the janitor mopping the floor behind her. as she walks she has a flashback to her youth, and the corridor is suddenly brightly lit. little buffy comes walking down the bright but deserted hall. the camera closes in on her face. cut to her view of a cart of surgical instruments. cut to her again, looking around nervously as she walks. cut to a shot from behind her as she approaches celia's room. sunlight is pouring brightly from the door. she edges up to it and goes in.
scene change: cut to inside the room. little buffy comes in and slowly goes over to the curtain pulled around celia's bed.
scene change: cut to buffy in her hospital bed. the clock on the nightstand changes to read 2 27am. she stirs and wakes from her dream. her door is open, but there's no one there. she pushes her hair back with her bandaged hand and slowly sits up. she feels the iv in the back of her right hand and looks at it. she pulls the tape off and the needle out. she covers her face with both hands, draws them back through her hair and starts to get out of bed.
scene change: cut to her walking down the hall, holding her robe closed with her hands. it's deserted except for the janitor mopping the floor behind her. she hears coughing coming from a room and looks in. a woman is tucking in an old man and comforting him.
woman: you'll be fine. is that better?
scene direction: she continues down the hall and looks into the next room. an old woman is sitting on the edge of the bed with her face in her hands. she continues, hears the old woman cough and lets out a little cough of her own. she passes another doorway and walks past the camera. a security guard looks out from the doorway and watches her go.
scene change: cut to another part of the hall near the children's ward. buffy comes walking toward the door as two orderlies wheel a child covered with a sheet out of the ward.
orderly: man, i hate it when you lose the young ones.
scene direction: they go down the hall past buffy. she looks at the gurney as they go by.
scene direction: she turns back to the children's ward door and slowly approaches it. she can hear dr. wilkinson and dr. backer arguing inside in hushed tones, so she doesn't go in.
dr. wilkinson: i'm just saying, step back on the dosage until we can analyze the results.
dr. backer: there isn't time. i should think that would be clear to you by now.
scene direction: buffy peeks into the room and sees them arguing.
dr. wilkinson: the normal course of treatment...
scene direction: dr. backer interrupts
dr. backer: they *aren't* responding to the normal course of treatment.
scene direction: dr. backer gestures to the kids
dr. backer: look, they're getting worse.
dr. wilkinson: raising their temperatures is poten...
scene direction: dr. backer interrupts
dr. backer: dr. wilkinson! i have the consent of the parents.
dr. wilkinson: they're desperate! they don't understand what you're...
scene direction: dr. backer interrupts
dr. backer: you know what, if-if you have a problem with my methods, just take it up with the board.
dr. wilkinson: i have!
scene direction: buffy has heard enough, and turns away to go. there in front of her is the little boy she saw in her dream and a little girl. she stops and they look at each other.
ryan: he comes at night. the grownups don't see him. he was with tina.
scene direction: he'll come back for us.
buffy: who?
ryan: death.
scene direction: buffy looks back and forth between the two kids in disbelief.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: sunnydale general. xander is sitting on a chair outside the waiting room across from the nurses' station that is down the hall from buffy's room.
scene direction: there are two police officers talking to a security guard. nurses and orderlies are going about their tasks. angelus comes walking out of the waiting room from the elevator bearing some white flowers and whistling a few bars of "ode to joy" from beethoven's 9th symphony. xander hears him and looks to see who's coming. when he sees angelus he quickly gets up and faces him down in the hall.
xander: visiting hours are over.
angelus: well, i'm pretty much family.
scene direction: xander trying hard to stay cool
xander: yeah. why don't you come back during the day? oh, gee, no, i guess you can't.
scene direction: angelus threateningly
angelus: if i decide to walk into buffy's room, do you think for one microsecond that you could stop me?
xander: maybe not. maybe that security guard couldn't either. or those cops... or the orderlies... but i'm kinda curious to find out. you game?
scene direction: angelus pauses
angelus: buffy's white knight. you still love her.
scene direction: angelus leans in close
angelus: it must just eat you up that i got there first.
scene direction: xander fighting his nervousness
xander: you're gonna die. and i'm gonna be there.
scene direction: angelus slaps the flowers against xander's chest.
angelus: tell her i stopped by.
scene direction: he gives xander one final look and then goes back through the waiting room to the elevator. xander shudders, covers his mouth and lets out a breath of relief.
scene change: cut to a flashback of little buffy and celia. celia is on the bedroom floor covered with pillows and writhing around, pretending to be trapped under a pile of snow and ice.
celia: help me, help! avalanche! help! help! i'm trapped! avalanche!
scene direction: help! help!
scene direction: little buffy comes in through the door and stops in a heroic stance with her hands on her hips.
little buffy: power girl to the rescue!
scene direction: she kneels down and starts to heave off the pillows as though they're huge, heavy blocks of ice and snow and thuds them aside.
celia: help me! help! help! please, help!
scene direction: buffy gets the last pillows off of celia's face, and she sits up.
celia: you saved me! thank you, power girl!
scene direction: the two girls embrace.
little buffy: you're safe now.
scene change: cut to a flashback of little buffy coming into celia's hospital room.
scene direction: she slowly approaches the curtain around the bed and opens it enough to look in at her cousin. she steps through. celia is lying there peacefully asleep.
scene change: cut to buffy in her hospital bed. she wakes with a start.
scene direction: dr. wilkinson coming in
dr. wilkinson: good morning.
scene direction: buffy moans, rubs her eyes and sits up.
buffy: could've fooled me.
dr. wilkinson: how are you feeling? looks like your fever's gone down.
buffy: well, good! thanks for having me. let's try and keep in touch.
scene direction: buffy tries to get out of bed
scene direction: dr. wilkinson pushes her back
dr. wilkinson: not so fast.
scene direction: dr. wilkinson inspects buffy's bandaged arm
dr. wilkinson: hmm.
buffy: good 'hmm' or bad 'hmm'?
dr. wilkinson: swelling's... gone!
scene direction: dr. wilkinson looks up
dr. wilkinson: does this hurt?
buffy: nope.
dr. wilkinson: amazing.
scene direction: dr. wilkinson gets the chart
buffy: well, then i should probably go, right?
scene direction: buffy tries to go again
scene direction: dr. wilkinson stops her again
dr. wilkinson: no. soon. we have to make sure that fever is gone. that's a strong virus you have. maybe not as strong as you, but...
buffy: i-is that the same virus the kids have?
scene direction: before dr. wilkinson can answer there's a knock on the door.
giles: may we come in?
dr. wilkinson: please!
scene direction: dr. wilkinson they all come in
dr. wilkinson: maybe you can keep our patient from bolting.
scene direction: dr. wilkinson to buffy, sternly
dr. wilkinson: rest! hmm?
scene direction: dr. wilkinson leaves
scene direction: xander presenting five balloons
xander: flowers for milady.
scene direction: buffy looks up at them
buffy: i think they call those balloons.
scene direction: xander looks up
xander: yeah, stick 'em in water, maybe they'll grow.
willow: not to be outdone...
scene direction: willow sets school books on the bed
buffy: homework!
willow: it's my way of saying, 'get well soon'.
buffy: you know, chocolate says that even better.
willow: i did all your assignments. all you have to do is sign your name.
scene direction: giles munches on a grape.
buffy: chocolate means *nothing* to me.
scene direction: willow steps back and looks up at cordelia.
cordelia: nobody told me i was supposed to bring a gift.
scene direction: cordelia looks at giles
cordelia: i was out of the loop on gifts.
giles: it's, it's tradition among, um... people. um...
scene direction: giles walks up to the bed
giles: grapes.
scene direction: giles sets down the bag
giles: well, did you, uh, pass the night well enough?
scene direction: a nurse comes into the room and walks around the bed.
buffy: not really. something happened i thought you...
scene direction: the nurse checks buffy's iv.
buffy: you know what? let's take a walk.
scene change: cut to outside the hospital main entrance. the camera pans over to willow pushing buffy along in a wheelchair while the others walk alongside.
buffy: now, this part i could get used to.
willow: do you want me to go real fast?
scene direction: willow gets a look from giles
willow: not that i would.
giles: we were discussing, um, stuff.
buffy: yes, stuff. um, you know, a girl died here last night.
willow: how?
buffy: well, the flu.
xander: flu doesn't exactly sound monsterrific.
buffy: i know. but there's this dr. backer, and he's been giving them these experimental treatments.
scene direction: they stop by a bench and giles sits.
buffy: i-i'm not sure what he's up to, but he's a little creepy. a-and then there was this kid, ryan. he said he saw something.
giles: saw what?
buffy: death.
cordelia: death?
willow: *the* death? as in, 'it is your time'?
giles: buffy, a-a-a frightened child...
buffy: yeah, but i thought i saw something. i'm not sure, i was really out of it, but...
cordelia: but you do know that you saw death.
willow: did it have an hourglass?
xander: ooo, if he asks you to play chess, don't even do it. the guy's, like, a whiz.
buffy: maybe it wasn't death. maybe it was something else.
cordelia: so this isn't about you being afraid of hospitals 'cause your friend died and you wanna conjure up a monster that you can fight so you can save everybody and not feel so helpless?
giles: cordelia, have you actually ever heard of tact?
cordelia: tact is just not saying true stuff. i'll pass.
willow: your mom did tell us about your cousin.
scene direction: cordelia sits also.
buffy: this has nothing to do with that. this little boy ryan is afraid of something, something real. as long as i'm forced to stay here, i'm gonna find out what.
xander: so, is this the part where we say, what can we do to help?
scene change: cut to the hospital records room after hours that evening. the place is deserted. cordelia and xander quietly come in.
scene direction: cordelia whispers
cordelia: you had to ask that, didn't you?
scene direction: they walk over to a records cabinet.
scene direction: xander quietly
xander: pft! it'll be cake. just gotta figure out what killed this little girl tina, we'll be out. five minutes tops.
scene direction: xander opens a cabinet door
scene direction: cordelia leans against the wall
cordelia: this is what happens when you're compassionate towards sick people. they take advantage of you.
scene direction: xander gives cordelia a look
xander: uh-huh. buffy almost died just to put you out.
cordelia: i didn't wanna be the first one to say it.
scene direction: he finds nothing and points over to the cabinet to his right.
xander: you there.
scene direction: xander points to his left
xander: me here.
cordelia: right.
scene direction: he goes on the next one around the corner. she reluctantly goes back to the one on the other side of the door where they came in. she opens the cabinet and looks in. suddenly a security guard appears next to her, and she jumps and gasps.
guard: what are you doing here?
scene direction: she gives him a worried smile and lets out a breath.
scene change: cut to the library. willow and giles come walking in.
willow: so, where do we start?
giles: hmm? oh, i don't know. maybe look into the history of the hospital, bizarre incidents, that sort of thing.
willow: i'm sensing a little less than full committal here.
scene direction: they stop by the counter.
giles: oh, i-i suppose so. cordelia may be
scene direction: giles inhales
giles: homerically insensitive, but she may also be right. death and disease are, are things, possibly the *only* things that, that buffy cannot fight. it's only natural for her to try to create a-a defeat-able opponent.
scene direction: especially now, after... after jenny.
scene direction: willow gives giles a sad look
willow: that's true. but on the 'we live on the hellmouth' side, these kids may have seen a monster.
scene direction: giles starts toward the stacks
giles: what, a monster that grown-ups can't see? doesn't ring a bell.
scene direction: giles pauses
giles: unless...
scene direction: willow sits on the table
willow: unless?
giles: well, sometimes small children *do* see something we adults don't: us. our true selves, our, our... our hidden faces.
willow: so the kids might be afraid of a regular person?
scene direction: willow realizes
scene direction: like the weird doctor!
giles: stanley backer was his name, no?
willow: let's look him up.
scene direction: willow goes to get her laptop
scene direction: cut back to the hospital records room. cordelia has the guard wrapped around her finger. she smiles sweetly at him and pretends to be interested as he leans against the wall and talks.
guard: you know, most people think that security guards are just guys that failed the police exam. but that's not me. this is my career.
cordelia: stereotypes are so unfair.
guard: i did take the fireman's exam, though. i didn't do so good.
cordelia: oh, well, you know, i think that security guards
scene direction: cordelia plays with his badge
cordelia: are *way* sexier than firemen. they're all sooty.
guard: well, this is where all the action is anyhow. i'm all the time restraining people.
scene change: cut to xander behind the other storage cabinets. he's found the file he wants and is waiting and listening for an opportunity to get out.
cordelia: mm, how thrilling.
scene direction: cordelia cut to her
cordelia: do you ever get scared?
guard: 'fear is for the weak.' that's my motto. either that, or 'live in the now.' i haven't decided yet.
cordelia: i bet you see a lot of tragedy. you know, like that little girl?
guard: oh, one of dr. backer's patients. dr. backer's a great man. he understands...
scene change: cut to xander. he cringes at what he's hearing and thuds lightly back into the cabinet.
guard: ...the real truth about children.
scene direction: cordelia cut to her
cordelia: what's that?
guard: sometimes they die.
scene direction: cordelia closes her eyes. xander makes another bumping noise, this time loud enough that the security guard hears it.
guard: what was that?
scene direction: guard draws his baton
cordelia: uh, you know, i didn't hear anything.
scene direction: cordelia tries to get his attention
cordelia: you know, you have the most... perfect nose i've ever seen.
scene direction: he turns to face her. she giggles and reaches up her finger to run it over his forehead and down the length of his nose. behind the guard xander steps over to the door, quietly opens it and goes out.
cordelia: you must work out.
scene direction: guard gives her a little growl
guard: yeah.
scene direction: cordelia smiles and nods her head
cordelia: mm-hm.
scene change: cut to the hall outside the records room. xander waits around the corner for cordelia. she walks around it and lets out a surprised gasp when she runs into him there.
xander: could you make just a little more with the touchy-gropey?
cordelia: jealous?
xander: of rogaine boy?
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: i don't think so.
scene direction: xander hands her the file
xander: here, take this to giles, okay?
cordelia: what about you?
xander: i'm gonna stay here.
cordelia: oh, right. your obsession with protecting buffy. have i told you how attractive that's not?
xander: cordelia, someone's gotta watch her back.
cordelia: yeah, well, i've seen you watch her back.
xander: what is that supposed to mean?
cordelia: well, i was using the phrase 'watch her back' as a euphemism for 'looking at her butt.' you know, sort of a pun.
xander: oh! right.
scene direction: xander gets the insult
xander: hey!
cordelia: well, you do.
xander: jealous?
cordelia: fine. watch *my* back.
scene direction: she walks past him and down the hall. he turns around and watches her go. he tilts his head to check out her butt, but quickly straightens back up again.
scene change: cut to the hall outside the children's ward. buffy comes along, stops by the door and looks into the room. ryan is sitting at a table drawing a picture with crayons. buffy walks over to him.
buffy: hey. remember me?
ryan: you shouldn't be here.
buffy: why not?
ryan: contagious.
buffy: nah. i already got what you got.
scene direction: she sits down by the table. ryan goes back to drawing his picture.
buffy: oh, what, you think because i'm a grown-up? believe me, i'm not that grown up.
scene direction: she takes a look at his picture. it's of the monster that he's seen coming after the other kids. buffy briefly flashes back to when she saw it walk past her door in her dream.
ryan: he'll come again tonight.
buffy: ryan, listen to me.
scene direction: buffy he looks at her
buffy: i'm not gonna let this thing hurt you. any of you. grown-ups don't believe you, right? well, i do. we both know that there are real monsters. but there's also real heroes that fight monsters. and that's me.
scene direction: he looks away and goes back to drawing his picture.
ryan: can't fight death.
scene change: cut to the library. willow is sitting at the table surfing for information on her laptop. giles is standing behind her looking over her shoulder. dr. backer's medical database file comes up on the screen.
giles: our dr. backer has something of a rap sheet.
willow: reprimands for controversial experiments, risky procedures, a malpractice suit. looks like it was dropped suddenly.
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses
giles: factor in buffy's observation that he gives her the, um, uh, wiggins...
scene direction: giles turns away and thinks
willow: this may be our death guy?
scene direction: giles turns back to her
giles: i just wish i knew what he was doing to these children.
scene direction: she looks up at him.
scene change: cut to a deserted hall in the hospital. cut to dr. backer's office. he's deep into his research and mutters under his breath. he looks up from his printouts and steps over to his refrigerator. he opens it, pulls a specimen from a rack, checks the label and marks it. he puts the test- tube back, closes the fridge and reaches for a reference volume on his desk. he sits back down as he quickly leafs through it and finds the page he wants. he reads it back to himself and jots some notes onto his papers.
dr. backer: yes. yes.
scene change: cut to the hall. xander is sitting on a chair, waiting out his self- imposed sentry duty. he nearly nods off, but jerks his head back up. cut to the table between his chair and the next one. a bag of krispy kreme doughnuts plops down onto it. the camera pulls back, and cordelia walks in front of it and sets down a tray with two cups of coffee. xander looks up at her as she sits down. she looks back at him, then turns her attention to a copy of cosmopolitan that she brought with her. xander reaches for one of the coffees. he gives cordelia another look and takes the bag of doughnuts also. he takes a long sip of coffee and then opens the bag.
scene change: cut to the hall outside dr. backer's office. he walks out, and the camera precedes him as he makes his way to the children's ward. he goes through one of a pair of doors. the camera stops, pans over to buffy waiting behind the other door and closes in on her suspicious face.
scene change: cut to the children's ward. dr. backer comes in and looks around at the various beds as he makes his way over to a particularly sick child. the boy is asleep. he checks his watch and looks at the child for a moment.
scene direction: the boy lets out a labored breath. dr. backer raises a syringe, taps it twice to get the air bubbles to the top and depresses the plunger until the fluid starts to squirt out. he takes the iv line and pushes the needle into the drug administration stopper. behind him he hears a muffled laugh and turns to look, but sees nothing. he looks back at the boy again. suddenly he gets hit in the back and spun around by something unseen.
dr. backer: uhh!
scene direction: he is hit again in the chest and yells out in pain. ryan sees what's happening from his bed and cowers in fear. dr. backer is choking. four slashes appear on his lab coat that go deep and draw blood. he grabs his wound, but is bent backward onto the bed, still being choked. on the wall a shadow can be seen swinging its arm for another slice at the doctor. he screams, and blood sprays onto the wall. ryan cowers further under his covers.
scene change: cut to the hall. buffy slowly approaches the door to the ward and looks in, but she quickly has to step back and out of the way as dr. backer comes flying out and onto the floor. he groans, and she bends down to help him, but something pushes her away and throws her back into the wall. she hits it hard and slides down to the floor unconscious. dr. backer's arms are lifted by the unseen being, and his body is pulled around and dragged down the hall. further down the hall he is dragged around a corner and out of sight.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene change: sunnydale general. cut to buffy's room. she's in her bed looking at the picture ryan drew. the grapes giles gave her are on a plate on the table. giles appears in the doorway and knocks. buffy looks up as he, xander and the girls come into the room. willow closes the door behind her.
giles: uh, well, it looks as if you, uh, were on to something.
buffy: i know.
scene direction: giles walks around the bed
giles: the, uh, the, the girl tina, um, it's apparent that she, she died of the fever,
scene direction: giles sits
giles: simple enough, but, but her records show her improving and then suddenly deteriorating w-w-w- without any apparent cause.
willow: so we checked dr. backer out. this guy was *not* a solid citizen.
buffy: it wasn't backer. he was clean.
cordelia: what do you mean 'clean'?
xander: what do you mean 'was'?
buffy: he's dead. this thing killed him, and not with kindness.
scene direction: buffy hands giles the picture
willow: you saw it?
scene direction: giles looks at the rough child's drawing.
buffy: no, it's invisible. i saw backer nearly shredded and the thing knocked me down. but it's real. which means i get to fight it.
giles: um,
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses
giles: this is your work?
scene direction: giles indicates the picture
buffy: no, one of the kids.
giles: oh. um... well, it would help if-if we knew what it was.
scene direction: giles exhales
giles: i-it's invisible to you, but the, the children can see it.
cordelia: but you said you did see something the other night.
buffy: uh, yeah, but i was pretty delirious. i mean, it doesn't make any sense. why would i see it then and not last night?
scene direction: the door to the room opens, and buffy's mother comes in.
joyce: good morning.
scene direction: giles puts his glasses back on. she sets down the bag she brought with her.
joyce: ooo, looks like i interrupted a secret meeting.
scene direction: they all let out forced laughter.
scene direction: cordelia smiling widely
cordelia: you sure didn't!
joyce: honey, i, i just talked to the doctor, and she said i can take you home.
scene direction: buffy considers a moment
buffy: no. i should stay here.
scene direction: joyce confused
joyce: but, honey, i thought you'd be raring...
buffy: i think my symptoms are flaring up.
willow: she doesn't look well.
buffy: 'cause i'm not well. uh, i feel all oogy.
xander: increased ooginess. that's a danger signal.
joyce: are you sure?
buffy: oh, yeah, but just for a day... or s-so.
joyce: okay, well, i'll, uh, i'll talk to the doctor.
scene direction: she goes back out of the room. cordelia closes the door behind her.
xander: so what's the drill?
buffy: giles, see if you can get a mug shot on that guy. i need to know what i'm fighting.
giles: right. yes.
scene direction: giles walks around the bed
buffy: i'll check backer's office. see if i can find any post-its marked 'why a monster might want me dead.' xander: sounds like a plan.
buffy: course, if i find anything, i won't know what it means, so, will...
willow: oh, yeah, i'm good at medical stuff since xander and i used to play doctor all the time.
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: no, she's being literal.
scene direction: xander gets a look from cordelia
xander: she used to have all these medical volumes, uh, and diagnosed me with stuff. i didn't have the heart to tell her she was playing it wrong.
scene direction: willow to xander
willow: wrong? why?
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: how did *you* play doctor?
scene direction: buffy evasively
buffy: i never have.
scene direction: cordelia raises her eyebrows at buffy and clears her throat. giles picks up on the hint.
giles: um, fascinating though this is...
buffy: yeah, right. go!
giles: w-w-we'll call you if we... know something.
scene direction: he starts out with cordelia and xander close behind.
buffy: know something soon.
scene change: cut to the hall. the three of them start toward the waiting room.
giles: i'd best head for the library. research beckons.
xander: i'm on sentry duty. angel won't show till sundown if at all, but maybe i'll get lucky with this death guy.
cordelia: he's invisible.
xander: yeah, but if i see a floating pipe and a smoking jacket, he's dropped.
giles: well, you two, stay alert.
scene direction: they stop outside the waiting room.
xander: finding out who this thing is takes priority. cordy, you should go with giles.
giles: why do i have to have...
scene direction: giles looks at cordelia
giles: uh, good thinking. i-i-i could do with a research assistant.
scene direction: cordelia to giles
cordelia: let's go, tact-guy.
giles: yes.
scene direction: giles goes to the elevator
scene direction: cordelia to xander
cordelia: be careful.
scene direction: cordelia follows giles
scene direction: xander sits down on the chair across from the nurse's station.
scene change: cut to the children's ward that evening. ryan opens the door and looks out into the hall. the only person there is the security guard checking things. ryan steps back into the ward and closes the door.
scene change: cut to dr. backer's office. the camera closes in on his nameplate on the door. cut inside. buffy opens the door and pokes in her head. seeing that it's empty she opens the door further to let willow in, checks the hall and closes it behind her. she starts to looks around and checks out the reference volumes on the shelves by the fridge. willow looks over the papers on his desk.
willow: it's weird going through his things.
scene direction: willow buffy opens the fridge
scene direction: look, he didn't finish his coffee. guess he won't. (looks at the printouts)
scene direction: buffy closes the fridge
buffy: yep, another person i wasn't in time to save.
scene direction: buffy comes to the desk
buffy: it's too bad angel didn't put me in the hospital sooner. there's something i never thought i'd hear myself say.
scene direction: the two of them keep looking.
willow: hey, wait, i think i have something.
buffy: hmm. sherlock.
willow: okay, this makes sense. dr. backer was trying to inoculate the kids with a controlled dosage of the same virus they already had.
scene direction: willow gets a confused look from buffy
willow: oh, raising their temperatures to burn the fever out of them.
buffy: would that work?
willow: according to this it was starting to. so he really was trying to help the kids.
buffy: till that thing stopped him.
scene change: cut to the library. giles and cordelia are going through a stack of books on the table. he has ryan's drawing for comparison. she turns a page and finds a picture of a demon. he takes a sip of his tea.
cordelia: eww, what does this do?
scene direction: giles puts his mug down
giles: what?
cordelia: what does this do?
scene direction: cordelia pushes the book toward him
giles: uh, it, uh, extracts vital organs to replenish its own mutating cells.
cordelia: wow!
scene direction: cordelia leans over to look at his book
cordelia: what does this one do?
scene direction: cordelia points to a drawing
scene direction: giles looks up at her
giles: um, i-it elongates its mouth to, uh, engulf its victim's head with its incisors.
cordelia: ouch. wait, what does this one do?
scene direction: cordelia points to another
scene direction: giles frustrated
giles: it asks endless questions of those with whom it's supposed to be working so that nothing is getting done.
cordelia: boy, there's a demon for everything.
scene direction: he slaps down ryan's picture and gets up from the table in disgust. he takes off his glasses and rubs his forehead.
giles: i don't even know if we're on the right track. since this, uh... miscreant has only been seen by select individuals, there's a chance we won't ever... find a picture of it.
cordelia: well, it's not in here.
scene direction: she closes her book, and on the cover is a drawing of the monster they are seeking. giles looks down at it and puts his glasses back on. she notices his gaze and looks at the book's cover also.
scene change: cut to giles' office. cordelia is on the phone with buffy.
cordelia: it's called der kindestod.
scene direction: buffy cut to her on her bed
buffy: who is this?
scene direction: cordelia cut to her
cordelia: it's me. i've got your monster!
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: where's giles?
scene direction: cordelia cut to her
cordelia: looking up stuff.
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: well, can you put him on?
scene direction: cordelia cut to her
cordelia: hey!
scene direction: cordelia closes the book and heads for the desk
cordelia: i found your guy,
scene direction: cordelia cut to buffy
cordelia: okay? just listen.
buffy: right.
scene direction: cordelia cut to her at giles' desk
cordelia: the name means 'child death'.
scene direction: cordelia cut to buffy listening intently
cordelia: this book says that he feeds off of children by sucking the life out of them.
scene direction: cordelia cut to her
cordelia: eew! but anyway, afterwards, it looks like they died because they were sick.
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: so it did kill tina.
cordelia: yeah, that's my take.
scene direction: cordelia cut to her
cordelia: 'cause it would be looking at the children's ward as basically an all-you-can-eat kind of thing, y'know.
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: backer was curing the kids and taking away the
scene direction: buffy cut to cordelia, nodding
buffy: kindestod's food.
cordelia: hence, the slice-age.
scene direction: giles comes into his office
giles: i found a picture of how it kills. let me talk to her.
scene direction: cordelia takes the book and looks
cordelia: oh! eww!
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: what?
scene direction: cordelia cut to her
cordelia: oh!
scene direction: cordelia cut to willow, looking concerned
cordelia: uh, you should see this thing! the way it does its thing,
scene direction: cordelia cut to her
cordelia: i mean, eww!
scene direction: cordelia hands the phone to giles and gets up
cordelia: why do i let you guys drag me into this stuff?
scene direction: cordelia leaves
scene direction: giles into the phone
giles: uh, uh, buffy?
scene direction: giles cut to buffy
giles: are you, are you still there?
buffy: hanging on every
scene direction: buffy cut to giles
buffy: eww.
scene direction: giles sits
giles: uh, the, um, the kindestod gorges by sitting atop his prey,
scene direction: giles cut to buffy listening closely
giles: pinning it down, uh, helplessly.
scene direction: then he slowly draws out the life. i-it must be, uh, h-horrifying for the victim.
scene direction: buffy just stares off into space.
giles: buffy? hello?
scene change: cut to a flashback of little buffy pulling aside the curtain around celia's bed.
little buffy: celia?
scene direction: celia wakes and starts to scream. she holds her hands in front of her as if trying to push something away.
little buffy: what's wrong?
scene direction: celia keeps screaming at the top of her lungs in complete terror.
little buffy: i don't know what to do, celia!
scene direction: celia continues screaming and swats with her hands at something unseen.
scene direction: little buffy toward the door
little buffy: help! help! help! somebody help!
celia: get it off of me!
scene direction: celia screams
little buffy: come on, celia!
celia: get it off of me!
scene direction: celia screams
scene change: cut to the bright and empty hall outside celia's room. no one is coming in spite of all the screaming.
scene direction: cut back to buffy holding the phone to her ear and staring off into space.
scene direction: giles cut to him
giles: buffy, w-what is it?
scene direction: willow cut to her
scene direction: willow takes the phone
willow: thanks.
scene direction: willow hangs up
buffy: it killed celia.
willow: your cousin?
scene direction: buffy looks at willow
buffy: we have to get this thing, willow, before it gets any more kids.
willow: you will. we will.
buffy: but how? i-i can't even see it.
willow: you saw it once.
buffy: did i? uh, maybe my mind was playing tricks on me. i mean, i was crazed with that fever. who knows...
scene direction: cut inside dr. backer's refrigerator. the door opens and the light goes on.
willow: buffy, think about this.
buffy: i have. lots of thoughts.
scene direction: buffy crouches down
willow: it's crazy.
scene direction: buffy searches the test-tubes
buffy: the fever. that's how you see the kindestod. that's why celia could see it. that's why ryan still can.
scene direction: buffy finds the right one
buffy: it's the only way.
scene change: cut to the office. buffy stands back up and faces willow.
willow: but how are you gonna fight this thing with 107 degree temperature?
scene direction: willow 42d c
buffy: i guess we'll find out.
scene direction: she uncaps the tube and raises it to drink the serum. willow quickly stops her.
willow: buffy!
buffy: willow, i'm going to do this.
willow: buffy, that's 100% pure. it'll kill you in an instant.
buffy: oh. they really should put that on the label.
scene direction: willow reaches into the refrigerator for a bottle of drinking water and grabs a beaker that's sitting on top. buffy closes the fridge while willow sets the beaker on the desk and opens the bottle.
willow: it needs to be diluted.
scene direction: she pours some water into the beaker and closes the bottle.
buffy: okay, but this better work fast.
scene direction: willow takes the test-tube and draws some of the serum into a dropper.
scene direction: she holds it over the beaker and lets a single drop fall in.
buffy: faster than that.
scene direction: willow looks up at her, worried, but gives in and puts another drop into the water. buffy takes the beaker, holds it up and looks at it, then over at willow.
buffy: here's to my health.
scene direction: after another moment's hesitation she quaffs the water and serum.
scene change: cut to the hall outside the children's ward. willow and buffy come around the corner and head toward the ward. buffy is already feeling the effects of the virus and walks unsteadily, breathing heavily. willow supports her.
buffy: oh, god. i'm not sure this was such a good idea.
willow: hang in there. you'll be okay.
buffy: okay. i'm okay.
scene direction: they reach the door to the ward, and buffy looks in through the door's window. the beds are all empty.
buffy: the kids. they're gone.
scene direction: she and willow exchange a surprised and very worried look.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the basement tunnels under the hospital. ryan leads the kids from the children's ward as they try to run away from the kindestod.
ryan: come on!
girl: hold me!
ryan: keep quiet!
scene change: cut to the hall outside the children's ward.
willow: what could have happened?
buffy: i don't know.
scene direction: buffy faces her
buffy: maybe we're too late. maybe they moved.
scene direction: buffy feels her forehead
buffy: maybe i don't... i'm burning up!
scene direction: she looks back into the room and starts to see something.
buffy: will?
willow: what?
buffy: i think it's in there.
scene direction: a form begins to take shape as though unfolding. it steps over to a bed, and suddenly the kindestod is clearly visible to buffy. it looks into a bed and finds it empty. she stares at it through the door's window. the monster looks over at another bed and notices her staring. it straightens itself up and looks at her. buffy's eyes go wide with fear.
scene direction: it just giggles maniacally and takes off its hat to her. it keeps an eye on her for another moment as it turns toward the other door to the ward, then puts the hat back on and walks to the other door. the kindestod opens it and goes through, and as it closes the camera cuts to a close-up shot of the sign on the door - basement access.
scene change: cut to the hall. buffy frantically tries to follow, but the door to the ward is locked, and the virus has weakened her enough so that she can't break it open.
buffy: it's going after them!
scene direction: buffy turns to willow
buffy: we gotta get 'em.
scene direction: dr. wilkinson coming around the corner
dr. wilkinson: buffy?
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: okay, we'll get 'em in a second.
scene direction: dr. wilkinson quickly approaches
dr. wilkinson: what's wrong?
willow: i, uh, she's not feeling well again.
dr. wilkinson: you should be in bed.
scene direction: dr. wilkinson puts her arm around buffy
buffy: no, no, it's not that bad.
dr. wilkinson: no, you're coming with me.
scene direction: dr. wilkinson starts to pull her away
buffy: no!
scene direction: she pushes the doctor away and starts to run down the hall. willow quickly follows.
scene direction: willow back to the doctor
willow: she's sorry!
scene direction: dr. wilkinson grabs a phone and dials
dr. wilkinson: security, come to the children's ward. we have a situation.
scene direction: she hangs up and runs after the girls.
scene change: cut to an intersection in the halls. buffy and willow come through a pair of doors. the camera pans around down the adjacent hallway where the security guards are coming. they head the girls off at the intersection.
guard: okay, come on now.
scene direction: guard holds his baton threateningly
guard: we can do this the easy way.
scene direction: the two girls give each other worried looks, then willow has an idea and starts to swat at herself with her hands.
scene direction: willow frantically
willow: frogs! frogs! get 'em off of me!
scene direction: the two guards make for her, assuming she's the reason they were called.
willow: oh, my god, frogs! get them off of me! please, help!
scene direction: buffy edges around the corner and quickly goes down the other hall.
willow: get 'em off! frogs! frogs! oh, my god, horrible frogs!
scene direction: dr. wilkinson comes through the doors.
scene direction: willow squeals
willow: get 'em...
dr. wilkinson: not her, the other one!
scene direction: willow looks up, calm again
willow: no more frogs!
guard: c'mon!
scene direction: they start to run after buffy.
scene change: cut to xander sitting at his post in the hall across from the nurse's station. buffy comes into view and bumps into the wall, unsteady from her fever. xander looks up, sees her, jumps to his feet and runs to her.
xander: buffy, are you okay? did angel...
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: no. we need to get to the basement.
scene change: cut to the basement tunnels. the kindestod is looking around for signs of the children's passing.
scene change: cut to the children weaving their way through the hospital's boiler room.
ryan: shh!
scene direction: they find a secluded corner and all crouch and huddle together.
girl: i'm cold.
ryan: here.
scene direction: he takes off his robe and drapes it around the girl.
ryan: here. we're gonna be safe in here.
boy: look!
scene direction: the kindestod appears behind ryan. the other kids all scream.
ryan: what?
scene direction: it grabs ryan from behind and lifts him up and away.
ryan: whoa!
scene change: cut to the stairs to the basement tunnels. xander supports buffy as they hurry down.
xander: you don't know how to kill this thing.
buffy: i thought i might try violence.
xander: solid call.
scene direction: they head down the tunnel.
scene change: cut to the kindestod holding ryan up to look at him. he and the other kids are all screaming. cut to xander and buffy running down the tunnel.
scene change: cut to the kindestod, still holding up ryan. it throws him aside, and he hits the concrete floor hard.
ryan: oof!
scene direction: the kids keep screaming. ryan tries to get up. the monster growls as it slowly comes for him. ryan turns around and looks up at the kindestod.
scene direction: he can't scream for fear. it kneels and leans over him, and now ryan starts to scream again. it takes his head to hold him steady. the boy watches as the monster's eyes bug out and split open. they extend from their sockets down toward his forehead. the monster drools heavily and licks its lips. its eyes make contact with ryan's forehead. he screams as he feels his energy being drained. suddenly the kindestod gets hit in the head with a large section of pipe, and its eyes snap back into their sockets. buffy stands over it with the pipe held ready.
buffy: you make me sick.
scene direction: the kindestod stands up and faces her. she swings the pipe at it again, but the monster blocks it and knocks it from her grip. although xander can't see it, he sees that buffy is fighting something and takes the opportunity to go to ryan and lift him up from the floor.
xander: up.
scene direction: he carries the boy over to the other kids. buffy is not in top form as she fights the kindestod, and it gains the upper hand and punches her twice in the face, then throws her against a pipe. xander finds the other children and starts to herd them away.
xander: c'mon, c'mon, c'mon! hurry!
scene direction: he follows them, throwing a few glances over at buffy along the way. she swings twice at the monster, but it just leans back and avoids the blows. it grabs her again and throws her into another pipe. she recovers quickly, spots a raised grating and hops up onto it. she takes a good look at the kindestod, and then jumps from the grate and lands a hard kick on its face. it stumbles back and to its knee as she lands on her feet. she kicks it three more times while it tries to get back up.
scene direction: xander comes back after leading the kids away and watches her fight. he sees her kick, but to him it looks like she's fighting thin air. he hears her get hit, and she spins around and lets out a grunt of pain.
scene direction: the monster takes her by the shoulder and backhand punches her in the face again. he takes her by the throat, lifts her up and throws her into some sections of large duct tube. buffy is dazed and just lies there on the pipe. the kindestod reaches down for its hat, brushes it off and puts it back on. buffy recovers from her daze, but not in time to get away as it kneels and reaches for her head. it holds her steady with both hands. its eyes bug out and split open again. she reaches up for its head with both hands and gives it a good quick twist. the monster's neck snaps loudly, and it falls over dead next to her. buffy stands up and looks down at the kindestod's prone body. xander finally dares to come closer.
scene direction: xander concerned
xander: are you okay?
buffy: actually,
scene direction: buffy looks up at him
buffy: i think i'm starting to feel better.
scene direction: let's...
scene direction: she takes a step, but loses her balance and falls into xander.
buffy: oh!
scene direction: he puts his arm around her to support her, and they go.
xander: he's dead right? i mean, i heard something snap.
buffy: that would be his neck.
xander: you're not gonna yak on me, are ya?
scene change: cut to the summers house. cut to buffy's room. joyce walks in with a sandwich on a plate and a glass of juice.
joyce: here you go, honey. peanut butter and jelly, without the crust, just the way you like it.
scene direction: she sits on the bed next to buffy and puts the glass on the nightstand.
scene direction: buffy is lying back comfortably.
buffy: and the juice?
scene direction: joyce hands buffy the plate
joyce: two parts orange, one part grapefruit.
buffy: that's my drink.
joyce: i measured it exactly.
scene direction: joyce gets up to go
scene direction: the camera pulls away from buffy to show xander lounging on the bed next to her, munching away on cheesy chips and watching tv.
scene direction: buffy looks at the sandwich
buffy: oh, mom?
joyce: mm-hm?
buffy: i wanted crunchy peanut butter.
joyce: oh, sorry.
scene direction: joyce comes back
scene direction: the camera pulls back even further to show willow on the floor next to the bed surrounded with pillows.
buffy: a-and i said extra jelly.
scene direction: buffy hands up the plate
scene direction: joyce smiles
joyce: anything to help my daughter get well.
scene direction: joyce starts to go again
willow: oh, and while you're up, could i get a refill?
scene direction: willow holds out her glass
willow: it's just i'm so comfortable.
scene direction: joyce steps over
joyce: of course.
scene direction: joyce takes the glass
willow: thanks.
xander: oh, oh, oh,
scene direction: xander holds up an empty bag
xander: and another bag of cheesy chips.
scene direction: xander tosses the bag away
scene direction: joyce raises her eyebrows at him
joyce: uh, you ate the last one.
xander: no, there's another bag hidden behind the raisins.
scene direction: joyce sighs
joyce: i'm on it.
scene direction: joyce leaves
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: your mom's tryin' to bogart the cheesy chips. what's that all about?
scene direction: joyce comes back into the room holding an envelope.
joyce: oh, buffy, here. um, this came in the mail.
scene direction: joyce hands it to buffy
scene direction: buffy reads the return address and smiles
buffy: it's from ryan.
scene direction: buffy opens it
joyce: the boy from the hospital?
scene direction: buffy takes out the paper inside and unfolds it. joyce looks down at it.
scene direction: joyce smiles
joyce: oh, he drew you a picture.
scene change: cut to a shot of the picture. it's of buffy standing over the kindestod with her foot up on its chest. the monster's neck is split open and blood is gushing out.
joyce: how... nice 