scene direction: a town square in galway, ireland, 1753. the camera looks straight down from above onto the cobblestones. a lone rider on his horse passes underneath, and the camera follows them past a well as angelus narrates.
angelus: there's moments in your life that make you, that set the course of who you're gonna be. sometimes they're little, subtle moments. sometimes... they're not. i'll show you what i mean.
scene direction: the horseman continues past a tavern on the far side of the square. the door opens, and a young drunk angel and his drunk friend are thrown out.
scene direction: angel with an irish accent
angel: we'll be back when we've found a bit more cash money! keep the girls warm!
scene direction: the tavern proprietor slams the door shut, and angel pounds on it a couple of times.
scene direction: friend moans
friend: let's go.
scene direction: angel staggers back over to him and puts his arm around him. they begin to walk with a definite sway in their step.
angel: come on. we'll sneak in and take some of me father's silver.
scene direction: he'll never miss it. he eats with his hands, the pig.
scene direction: his friend is too drunk to go on, and faints dead away, falling out of angel's arm to the pavement. angel looks down at him.
angel: ah. why don't you rest right here.
scene direction: he takes a look around and spots a noble lady in a fancy period dress standing in an alley beyond an archway. the woman gives a slight backward glance to be sure she has his attention, and starts to walk further into the alley, disappearing around a corner from angel's view.
scene direction: he follows her.
scene change: cut to the alley. the woman continues her slow pace and looks up when angel comes through the archway and begins to speak. as she gets closer to the camera it becomes clear that the woman is darla. her long curly blonde hair is very nicely coiffed.
angel: so, i'd ask myself... what's a lady of your station doing alone in an alley with the reputation that this one has?
scene direction: darla still facing away
darla: maybe she's lonely.
angel: in that case, i'd offer myself as escort to protect you from harm and to while away the dull hours.
darla: you're very gracious.
angel: hm. it's often been said.
scene direction: darla turns to face him
darla: are you certain you're up to the challenge?
scene direction: angel approaches her
angel: milady, you'll find that with the exception of an honest day's work, there's no challenge i'm not prepared to face.
scene direction: he stops in front of her and looks into her eyes.
angel: oh... but you're a pretty thing. where are you from?
scene direction: darla smiles
darla: around. everywhere.
angel: i never been anywhere myself. always wanted to see the world, but...
darla: i could show you.
scene direction: darla smiles
angel: could you, then?
darla: things you've never seen, never even heard of.
angel: sounds exciting.
darla: it is. and frightening.
angel: i'm not afraid. show me. show me your world.
scene direction: darla closes her eyes
darla: close your eyes.
scene direction: angel follows her example. the camera follows her hand as she puts it on his shoulder, and continues up to show her face vamped out. she smiles, lets out a low growl and opens wide as she leans in to bite him. when he feels the pain his eyes open wide, and he gasps. he can't keep steady, and sinks to his knees. darla lets go of her bite, revealing his bloody neck, and stands up straight. she lifts her hand to her chest and draws a sharp fingernail across the skin above her breasts, allowing blood to trickle out. she grabs him by the back of the neck and pulls him in to her bosom so that his lips fall directly onto the cut, forcing him to taste of her blood. he puts his arms around her and drinks.
scene change: cut to the cemetery in sunnydale, 1998. angelus walks through carefully and quietly while watching buffy fight a pair of vampires nearby. he sees her kick one and then the other, and then continues on to a better vantage point. one of the vampires rushes buffy, and she flips him over onto his back.
buffy: nice try.
scene direction: the other one comes at her again with a swing. she ducks it and punches him in the face, in the gut and again in the face. he falls to the ground, dazed. the first one comes at her again with a kick, but she blocks it with her arm, backhand punches him in the face, jabs him in the gut and grabs his arm, twisting it up high and forcing him to his knees in pain. angelus looks on from behind a tree and smiles. the second vampire gets back up and rushes her. without letting go of the first one she cleanly jams her stake into the other one's chest, and he crumbles into ashes. angelus can't help but snicker. buffy turns her attention back to the one she's holding and punches him in the face, making him roll away.
buffy: i want you to get a message to angel for me. tell him i'm done waiting. i'm taking the fight to him.
scene direction: angelus smiles as he listens.
buffy: you got that? need me to write it down for you?
scene direction: the vampire gets up and charges her. she grabs him and pulls him around and down to the ground, and immediately plunges her stake home. he bursts into ashes.
buffy: alright, i'll tell him myself.
scene direction: she gets up and walks over behind a gravestone, where she reaches down to help someone up.
scene direction: xander moans
xander: i'm good. don't worry about me.
scene direction: xander rubs his neck
buffy: you know, you don't have to patrol with me.
scene direction: xander indicates the pile of ash
xander: i had that guy under control until he resorted to fisticuffs.
scene direction: xander cranes his neck
xander: oh! what is that, um...
scene direction: five vampires in three nights?
buffy: yep. but no angel.
xander: are you, uh, really that anxious to come up against him?
buffy: i want it over with.
scene direction: xander nods
xander: i hear that.
buffy: oh, we better go.
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: i haven't even started studying for finals yet.
scene direction: buffy starts to go
scene direction: xander joins her
xander: oh, yeah, finals! why didn't you let me die?
buffy: ah, look on the bright side. it'll all be over soon.
scene direction: they leave the cemetery under the watchful eyes of angelus.
angelus: yes, my love. it will.
scene direction: he smirks and turns to leave the other way.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: the research lab at the sunnydale museum of natural history. the camera pans across a large rectangular chunk of rock over to a technician. she is carefully cleaning off a section of the rock. she lets a jet of compressed air blow away some dust. a moment later she lets another jet go, and then reaches up with a brush and runs it across the rock. dr. doug perren, one of the museum curators, comes over to check her progress.
doug: careful, now.
scene direction: doug points
doug: concentrate in this area.
scene direction: doug watches her work a moment
doug: there you go.
scene direction: the door opens behind him, and he turns to see giles come in.
giles: hello?
scene direction: doug comes to greet him
doug: rupert giles?
giles: yes.
doug: doug perren.
scene direction: doug shakes his hand
doug: thanks for coming.
giles: oh, not at all. it's... flattered to be asked.
doug: i spoke with lou tabor at the washington institute, and he told me we had the best authority on obscure relics right here in sunnydale.
giles: oh...
scene direction: giles laughs
giles: he may have, uh, exaggerated a little.
scene direction: giles sees the obelisk
giles: ah, is this the...
doug: this is our baby.
scene direction: doug they approach it
doug: construction workers dug it up outside of town. don't have a clue what it is. any ideas?
scene direction: giles touches and looks at the rock
giles: a few. none i'd care to share until i can verify.
scene direction: giles notices the runes on it
giles: you have, uh, carbon dated it?
scene direction: giles inspects the writings
doug: the results'll be back in a couple of days. i'll go out on a limb and say old.
scene direction: giles smirks
giles: um, yes, it, it certainly...
scene direction: giles picks up a jar and a scraper
giles: predates any, uh... settlements we've read about.
scene direction: giles points
giles: um, may, may i?
doug: yeah. sure.
scene direction: giles leans in and begins to scrape at the corner of the obelisk, catching the debris in the jar. he digs into an apparent groove. a few scrapes later he stops and taps the scraper clean on the jar.
giles: i assume you've, uh, you haven't tried to open it.
doug: open it?
scene direction: he leans over to see what giles has discovered.
doug: ah, i'll be damned. i figured it was solid. what do you think is in there?
scene direction: giles staring intently
giles: i don't know.
doug: well... i guess we won't know until we open it up.
scene direction: giles considers
giles: yes, but could i ask, um... would you wait? i, uh...
scene direction: i'd like to work on translating the text. it-it-it might give us an indication of... what we'll find inside.
doug: you don't want to be surprised?
giles: a-as a rule, no.
doug: alright. you're the expert. but i'm pretty damn curious, though.
scene direction: giles removes his glasses
giles: yes. yes, so am i.
scene change: cut to the cafeteria at sunnydale high. the camera focuses on two fish sticks that xander is holding, one with a toothpick stuck through the middle. he plays with them like puppets, moving the one with the toothpick around.
xander: tell angel i'm gonna kill him! no, wait. i'm gonna kill you!
scene direction: he starts to repeatedly stab the toothpick into the other fish stick.
scene direction: the camera pulls back and up to his face.
xander: die! die! die!
scene direction: he makes an anguished face and lets the fish stick fall.
xander: aah!
scene direction: xander makes a thudding noise
scene direction: xander squeals
xander: mother!
scene direction: xander smiles
cordelia: is that it?
xander: yeah. that's it.
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: scene!
scene direction: xander grins
scene change: cut to willow, oz and buffy at the opposite side of the table. willow is sitting on oz's lap.
buffy: that's exactly how it happened.
oz: well, i thought it was riveting. uh, i was a little unclear about some of the themes.
buffy: the theme is angel's too much of a coward to take me on face-to- face.
scene direction: xander still playing with the fish sticks
xander: and the other theme was 'buy american', but it, uh, got kind of buried.
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: do you think you're ready to fight angel?
buffy: i wish people would stop asking me that. yes, i'm ready. i'm also willing and able. just the one test i might actually pass.
willow: don't say that! you're gonna pass everything. i will get you through this semester if i have to sweat blood.
xander: do you think you're likely to? 'cause i'd like to be elsewhere.
willow: it was only metaphor blood.
oz: i think you'd sweat cute blood.
scene direction: willow gives oz a smile
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: sixth period, after my computer class, we'll rock on chemistry.
buffy: ready to rock.
cordelia: boy, willow, you've really got the teaching bug: taking over computer class, tutoring...
scene direction: willow smiles widely
willow: i love it. i really do.
cordelia: i think it's great to do that before you go out and fail in the real world. that way you're not falling back on something. you're falling... well, forward.
scene direction: xander rolls his eyes
xander: and almost sixty-five percent of that was actual compliment. is that a personal best?
cordelia: gee, xander, what are you gonna teach when you fail in life?
scene direction: advanced loser-being?
xander: i will teach...
scene direction: xander with a french accent
xander: zee language of love!
scene direction: xander reaches for her
scene direction: cordelia fights him off
cordelia: don't touch me! you have fish hands!
scene direction: snyder comes into the cafeteria behind them.
xander: come, let me caress you!
cordelia: stop it!
xander: let me in!
cordelia: no!
scene direction: cordelia laughs
cordelia: don't!
snyder: that's enough of that.
scene direction: snyder to willow
snyder: and you! are we having a chair shortage?
willow: i didn't read anything about... oh.
scene direction: willow slides off of oz's lap and into her chair
willow: i get it.
snyder: these public displays of affection are not acceptable in my school. this isn't an orgy, people. it's a classroom.
buffy: yeah! where they teach lunch.
scene direction: snyder glares at her
snyder: just give me a reason to kick you out, summers.
scene direction: just give me a reason. (walks off)
cordelia: how about because you're a tiny, impotent nazi with a bug up his butt the size of an emu?
buffy: sums it up.
cordelia: don't you think?
scene direction: willow smiles
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: do you wanna come by my house tonight and study, too?
buffy: maybe. i-i do have to patrol.
willow: again? do you really expect angel to turn up tonight?
buffy: no, i don't expect him to. but that's usually when he does.
scene change: cut to an abbey in london, 1860. cut inside the nave. monks are chanting. drusilla walks behind the pews toward the confession booths.
scene direction: before going in she faces the altar, kneels and crosses herself. she looks up briefly before getting back to her feet and going into one of the booths. as she steps in through the curtain an arm juts out of the adjacent one where the priest waits, and muffled noises and struggling can be heard. the arm gets pulled back in as quickly as it appeared. cut inside the confessional. drusilla sits down and pulls the scarf from her head.
drusilla: bless me, father, for i have sinned.
scene direction: in the next booth angelus is caught by surprise, and drops the dead priest.
drusilla: it's been two days since my last confession.
scene direction: drusilla waits for an answer
drusilla: father?
scene direction: angelus goes along with it
angelus: that's not very long.
scene direction: drusilla with a trembling voice
drusilla: oh, father, i'm so afraid.
angelus: the lord is very forgiving. tell me your sins.
drusilla: i had...
scene direction: drusilla breathes deeply
drusilla: i've been seeing again, father. yesterday, the men were going to work in the mine. i had...
scene direction: drusilla shakes
drusilla: a terrible fright.
scene direction: drusilla draws a frightened breath
drusilla: my stomach all
scene direction: drusilla draws another
drusilla: tied up, and i saw this horrible... crash.
scene direction: drusilla calms a bit
drusilla: my mummy said to keep my peace, it didn't mean nothing. but this morning...
scene direction: they had a cave-in. two men died.
angelus: go on.
drusilla: me mum says... i'm cursed.
scene direction: drusilla exhales
drusilla: my seeing things is an affront to the lord,
scene direction: drusilla inhales sharply
drusilla: that only he's supposed to see anything before it happens.
scene direction: drusilla inhales, sobs
drusilla: but i don't mean to, father, i swear!
scene direction: drusilla inhales
drusilla: i swear!
scene direction: drusilla begins to cry
drusilla: i try to be pure in his sight.
scene direction: drusilla sobs
drusilla: i don't want to be an evil thing.
angelus: oh, hush, child. the lord has a plan for all creatures. even a devil child like you.
scene direction: drusilla taken aback
drusilla: a devil?
angelus: yes! you're a spawn of satan. all the hail marys in the world aren't going to help. the lord will use you and smite you down. he's like that.
scene direction: drusilla frightened
drusilla: what can i do?
angelus: fulfill his plan, child. be evil. just give in.
drusilla: no!
scene direction: drusilla sobs
drusilla: i want to be good.
scene direction: drusilla sobs
drusilla: i want to be pure.
angelus: we all do, at first. the world doesn't work that way.
drusilla: father... i beg you... please... please, help me.
angelus: very well. ten our fathers and an act of contrition. does that sound good?
scene direction: drusilla relieved
drusilla: yes.
scene direction: drusilla exhales
drusilla: yes, father. thank you.
angelus: the pleasure was mine. and my child...
scene direction: angelus raises his hand to the lattice between them
drusilla: yes?
scene direction: angelus stares at her
angelus: god is watching you.
scene change: cut to the atrium at angelus' mansion, 1998. drusilla comes down the stairs to the garden below. there spike sits in his wheelchair and reads the newspaper.
spike: nice walk, pet?
scene direction: drusilla holds her tummy as though sick
drusilla: i met an old man. didn't like him. he got stuck in my teeth.
scene direction: drusilla licks her fingers
scene direction: drusilla faces spike
scene direction: but then the moon started whispering to me... (closes her eyes and leans her head back) all sorts of dreadful things.
scene direction: angelus walks into the garden behind spike.
angelus: well, what did it say?
spike: oh. look who's awake.
scene direction: angelus bumps spike's head with his fist as he walks past him.
angelus: what did the moon tell you?
scene direction: angelus walks around dru
angelus: did you have a vision? is something coming?
drusilla: oh, yeah.
scene direction: drusilla whispers
drusilla: something terrible. psst, psst, psst, psst, psst, psst...
angelus: where?
drusilla: at the museum. a tomb...
scene direction: drusilla smiles
drusilla: with a surprise inside.
scene direction: angelus holds his hand up to her head
angelus: you can see all that in your head?
spike: no, you ninny. she read it in the morning paper.
scene direction: spike hands over the paper
scene direction: angelus takes the paper and looks
angelus: oh, my.
scene direction: the headline of the sunnydale press reads 'mysterious obelisk unearthed'. the article's subtitle reads 'excavators discover ancient artifact'.
drusilla: that's what's been whispering to me. sh.
angelus: oh, yeah.
scene direction: angelus to drusilla
angelus: don't worry, though. soon it'll stop.
scene direction: angelus to spike
angelus: soon it'll scream.
scene direction: he smiles over at spike. drusilla waves her head around open-mouthed and playfully snaps at angelus' cheek.
scene change: cut to the computer science classroom after school. willow is tutoring buffy in chemistry. buffy gives up in frustration and slaps down her pencil.
buffy: waah! this doesn't make any sense.
scene direction: buffy pouts at willow
willow: well, sure it does. see...
scene direction: willow takes the paper and looks
willow: oh, no, this doesn't make any sense.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: it's senseless.
scene direction: buffy plays with her pencil
scene direction: willow encouragingly
willow: it is, but at least you know that, so you're learning.
scene direction: willow looks at the problem more closely
buffy: yay me. well, it doesn't matter anyway. i mean, when in the real world am i ever gonna need chemistry or history or math or the english language?
scene direction: willow shoots buffy a glance
willow: okay. i see your problem.
buffy: i'm a moron?
scene direction: willow gives buffy a look
willow: will you stop that? you're not stupid! you've just had a lot on your mind. you can learn this real easily, but if you're just gonna give up, then don't waste my time.
scene direction: buffy impressed
buffy: wow. you really *are* a good teacher.
scene direction: buffy smiles
willow: okay. look at this. a covalent bond, which means these two atoms are linked by this...
scene direction: buffy puts her pencil down on her open book, and it rolls off of the desk and into the space between it and the filing cabinet next to it.
buffy: ohh!
scene direction: buffy moans
buffy: hold that thought.
scene direction: she reaches down and in with her fingers, and pulls the pencil out. in the process she bumps the disk with the pencil so it now leans against the desk instead of the cabinet.
scene direction: buffy sits back up
buffy: okay. i'm learn girl.
willow: okay.
scene direction: willow points to the paper
willow: so, see here...
scene direction: buffy has an epiphany
buffy: deja vu.
willow: really?
buffy: yeah. i have this perfect memory of the pencil and...
scene direction: she drops the pencil onto her book again. it rolls off of the desk again, falls and hits the disk. she looks over into the space and sees the disk. she reaches down again for it and her pencil.
buffy: oh, hey.
scene direction: buffy pulls up the disk and pencil
buffy: you dropped this.
scene direction: she hands the unlabeled yellow disk to willow, who looks at it curiously.
willow: it's not mine. it might be something of ms. calendar's.
scene direction: she inserts the disk into her laptop's floppy drive.
buffy: this feels kinda morbid.
scene direction: willow smiles at buffy
willow: i've gone through most of her files already.
buffy: does that make it *less* morbid or you *really* morbid?
scene direction: the program on the disk starts up, and the rumanian text scrolls into the left-hand window.
scene direction: willow sighs
willow: i had to, to teach her class.
scene direction: the translation program's percent complete window appears, and the bar begins to zip across the screen.
buffy: relax, will. i was making with the funny.
scene direction: they both watch as the bar reaches the far side. it disappears, and the english translation scrolls into the right-hand window.
scene direction: buffy looks closely
buffy: does that say 'restoration'?
scene direction: buffy keeps reading
willow: it's one of her spells, i think.
scene direction: willow looks at buffy
willow: ms. calendar wasn't a practicing witch, but she did dabble...
scene direction: buffy interrupts
buffy: willow...
scene direction: buffy keeps reading
scene direction: willow looks back at the screen and begins reading more. she quickly realizes what they've found.
willow: oh, boy. oh, boy. oh, boy.
scene direction: the camera closes in on buffy. she has stopped reading, and just looks stunned.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene change: a wood in rumania, 1898. angelus runs through the trees, panting in his desperation to reach a gypsy camp. cut to the camp. the camera pans across the dead body of the young kalderash gypsy girl that angelus has recently killed. she is on a table dressed in white and lying on an intricately patterned quilt with candles burning around the perimeter.
scene direction: members of the clan are laying rose petals on her. the camera continues to pan over to the elder woman sitting beneath a tent canopy and chanting over an orb of thesulah surrounded by candles within a sacred circle. angelus continues running through the woods as she chants.
elder woman: nici mort, nici de-al fiintei, te invoc, spirit al trecerii. reda trupului ce separa omul de animal!
translation: neither dead, nor of the living, i invoke you, spirit of the passing. return to the body what distinguishes man from the beast!
scene direction: angelus breaks through the trees into the clearing of the camp. he trips and falls by the great bonfire raging near the center of the camp.
elder woman: asa sa fie.
translation: so it shall be.
scene change: he gets to his hands and knees and looks over at the elder woman, still chanting. cut to the elder woman.
elder woman: utrespur aceastui.
translation: restore this one.
scene change: the glowing orb suddenly gets very bright for an instant, and then goes dark. cut to angelus. his eyes grow bright for a moment, then return to normal, his soul now restored. an elder man of the clan steps up to him as he sits back on his ankles.
gypsy man: it hurts, yes? good. it will hurt more.
scene direction: angel confused
angel: where am i?
scene direction: angel pants hard
gypsy man: you don't remember... everything you've done for a hundred years. in a moment, you will. the face of everyone you killed... our daughter's face... they will haunt you, and you will know what true suffering is.
scene direction: angel still not understanding
angel: killed? i, i don't...
scene direction: slowly the memories come back to him - all the people in budapest after the earthquake that he and darla killed for their blood; all the people he's turned into demons; the gypsy girl that proved to be his downfall.
angel: no...
scene direction: he looks down away from the man and begins to sob.
angel: no... no... no...
scene direction: he bends down to the ground in sorrow and grief.
scene change: cut to the library at sunnydale high school, 1998. xander and cordelia are sitting at the table. giles walks up to buffy and willow.
giles: what are you saying?
buffy: the curse.
scene direction: buffy holds out a printout
buffy: this is it.
willow: looks like ms. calendar was trying to replicate the original curse. to restore angel's soul again.
scene direction: giles takes the printout, stares at it
giles: she said it couldn't be done.
buffy: well, she tried anyway. and it looks like it might have worked.
xander: so he killed her... before she could tell anyone about it. what a prince, huh?
scene direction: xander looks away
cordelia: this is good, right? i mean, we can curse him again.
scene direction: buffy paces, thinking.
giles: um, well, this, um... certainly points the way, but... the ritual itself requires a greater knowledge of the black arts than i, i, i can claim.
willow: well, i've been going through her files and, and researching the black arts, for fun, or educational fun, and i may be able to work this.
scene direction: giles very concerned
giles: w-willow... channeling... such potent magicks through yourself, it could open a door that you may not be able to close.
buffy: i don't want you putting yourself in any danger, will.
willow: and i don't want danger. big 'no' to danger, but i may be the best person to do this.
xander: hi! for those of you who have just tuned in,
scene direction: xander gets up
xander: everyone here is a crazy person.
scene direction: xander walks to the end of the table
xander: so this spell might restore angel's humanity? well, here's an interesting angle.
scene direction: xander harshly
xander: who cares?
buffy: i care.
scene direction: xander not surprised
xander: is that right.
giles: let's not lose our perspective here, xander.
scene direction: willow looks at xander, disbelieving what she's hearing from him.
scene direction: xander standing his ground
xander: i'm perspective guy. angel's a killer.
willow: xander...
buffy: it's not that simple.
scene direction: xander disgusted
xander: what? all is forgiven? i can't believe you people!
scene direction: cordelia gets up
cordelia: xander has a point.
scene direction: xander to cordelia, in a raised voice
xander: you know, just for once, i wish you'd support me, and i realize right now that you were, and i'm embarrassed, so i'm gonna get back to the point,
scene direction: xander to the others
xander: which is that angel needs to die.
giles: curing angel seems to have been jenny's last wish.
xander: yeah? well, jenny's dead.
scene direction: giles approaches xander angrily
giles: don't you *ever* speak of her in that tone again!
scene direction: xander yells back
xander: can't you hear what i'm saying?
scene direction: they begin to argue heatedly. buffy rushes over and gets between them.
buffy: stop it! stop it!
scene direction: they all shut up and glare at each other for a moment. buffy turns away and goes over to willow, very upset. giles paces away, also very upset.
scene direction: willow quietly
willow: what do you wanna do?
scene direction: buffy sighs
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: i-i don't know. what happened to angel wasn't his fault.
xander: yeah, but what happened to ms. calendar is.
scene direction: buffy and willow stare at him in disbelief.
scene direction: xander very coldly
xander: you can paint this any way you want. but the way i see it is that you wanna forget all about ms. calendar's murder so you can get your boyfriend back.
scene direction: buffy refuses to listen to any more of this, and walks out of the library. willow and giles just stare at xander in surprise and shock. he walks back to his chair at the table.
scene change: cut to the museum research lab. dr. perren is going over his notes when he hears some whispering coming from behind him. he turns around to look, but no one's there.
doug: hello?
scene direction: he gets up and slowly walks over to the obelisk. the whispering gets louder as he nears it. he reaches up to the runes on the face of the rock and touches them. the whispering seems to be coming from inside. he places his hand flat on the face of the rock and stares up at it in amazement. suddenly drusilla wraps her hand around his mouth from behind and pulls his head back to expose his neck. she leans in and bites him hard as he struggles to get away. behind her angelus and two other vampires approach the obelisk.
angelus: i'll have one of these to go.
scene direction: the two vampires walk around the rock with some rope and tools to haul it away.
angelus: dru...
scene direction: she jerks her head up from her victim and turns her eyes toward him, growling and smiling a most evil smile.
angelus: save me some.
scene change: cut to buffy's room at home. she piles a bunch of stakes and crosses into her bag while talking on the phone with willow.
buffy: well, i'll do a couple of sweeps, and then i'll stop by.
scene direction: buffy listens
buffy: yeah, xander was pretty much being a... willow! where did you learn that word? my god. you kiss your mother with that mouth?
scene direction: she goes over to her desk while listening to willow talk some more. she grabs a couple more stakes from the top left drawer.
buffy: i don't know. i don't know what i wanna do.
scene direction: at the bottom of the drawer she sees the claddagh ring that angel gave her, and stares at it sadly for a moment. she reaches in for it and holds it gently with her fingers, remembering.
buffy: i'll, i'll see you in a little while, okay?
scene direction: she turns off the phone and sets it down. she holds the ring with both hands again and gazes at the design - two hands for friendship, a crown for loyalty and a heart for love.
scene change: cut to the park. buffy walks through on patrol and heads into some bushes. she stops and jerks her head aside when she hears something snap. slowly she takes a few more steps to investigate. she hears another sound behind her, and spins around to look. nothing. again she takes a couple of steps. suddenly kendra comes out of the bushes to stand right behind her. buffy instantly pivots around with her fist held up, ready to punch. she stays herself when she recognizes the other girl.
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: you know, polite people call before they jump out of the bushes and attack you.
scene direction: kendra in her accent
kendra: just wanted to test your reflexes.
buffy: how about testing my face-punching? 'cause i think you'll find it's improved.
kendra: i was on my way to your house. saw you walking. couldn't help meself.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: which begs the question, and don't think i'm not glad to see you, but, why are you here?
scene direction: buffy kendra starts to answer
buffy: oh, wait. no, let me guess. your watcher informed you
scene direction: buffy imitating her accent
buffy: dat a very dark power is about to rise in sunnydale.
kendra: dat's about it.
buffy: great. so, you have any idea what this dark power is?
scene change: cut to the main hall in angelus' mansion. he and drusilla walk in across the marble floor to where spike is sitting in his wheelchair, staring at the obelisk set in front of the huge fireplace.
scene direction: spike hears them coming
spike: it's a big rock. i can't wait to tell my friends. they don't have a rock this big.
angelus: spike, boy, you never did learn your history.
spike: let's have a lesson, then.
angelus: acathla the demon came forth to swallow the world.
scene direction: angelus strolls to the obelisk
angelus: he was killed by a virtuous knight who pierced the demon's heart before he could draw a breath to perform the act. acathla turned to stone, as demons sometimes do, and was buried
scene direction: angelus turns to face spike
scene direction: where neither man nor demon would want to look. (starts away from the obelisk) unless of course they're putting up low-rent housing. boys...
scene direction: the two vampires reach up with crowbars and pry open the tomb. the lid crashes to the floor, stirring up plenty of dust. inside is a tall, horned, stockily built stone demon with a sword protruding from the right side of its chest. upon seeing him drusilla closes her eyes, raises her hands to the sides of her head and begins to sway it back and forth.
drusilla: he fills my head. i can't hear anything else.
spike: let me guess. someone pulls out the sword...
angelus: someone worthy...
spike: mm. the demon wakes up, and wackiness ensues.
scene direction: drusilla opens her eyes, lowers her arms
drusilla: he will swallow the world.
angelus: and every creature living on this planet will go to hell.
scene direction: he walks up to acathla for a closer look, and turns to face the others.
angelus: my friends... we're about to make history... end.
scene direction: angelus smiles evilly
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the library. giles comes out of his office into the main room where buffy and kendra are waiting at the table. willow is behind the counter, researching in a book.
giles: i've been on the phone to the museum. the artifact in question is missing, and the curator has been murdered. vampires.
scene direction: giles leans on the table
buffy: and you're sure this was the tomb of alfalfa?
giles: acathla. and yes, the information provided by kendra's watcher seems conclusive.
scene direction: he straightens back up. willow walks out from behind the counter.
willow: okay, somebody explain the whole 'he will suck the world into hell' thing, because that's the part i'm not loving.
giles: well, the, uh,
scene direction: giles puts on his glasses
giles: the demon universe exists in a dimension separate from our own.
scene direction: giles sits on the table
giles: with one breath, acathla will create a vortex, a-a kind of, um... whirlpool that will pull everything on earth into that dimension, where any non-demon life will suffer horrible and... eternal torment.
buffy: so that would be the literal kind of 'sucked into hell'.
scene direction: buffy smiles nervously
buffy: neat.
scene direction: buffy frowns, turns to willow
buffy: willow, i think you should try the curse.
kendra: i tend to side with your friend xander on this one. angel should be eliminated.
buffy: oh, i'll fight him. i'll kill him if i have to. but if i don't get there in time, or if i lose, then willow might be our only hope.
scene direction: willow taken aback
willow: i don't *wanna* be our only hope! uh, i crumble under pressure! let's have another hope.
kendra: we have.
scene direction: kendra pulls a sword from her bag
kendra: blessed by the knight who first slew the demon.
scene direction: kendra giles looks at the sword, intrigued
kendra: if all else fails, this might stop it. i tink.
scene direction: giles approaches
giles: ooh. may i? may i?
scene direction: giles takes the sword from kendra
giles: thank you. well, l-let's, uh, hope all else doesn't fail.
scene direction: giles to willow
giles: um, how close are you to f-figuring out the ritual of the curse?
scene direction: willow goes to her pack
willow: i need about a day, and...
scene direction: willow picks up some papers and reads
willow: an 'orb of thesulah'? whatever that is.
scene direction: giles hands the sword back to kendra
giles: spirit vault for rituals of the undead.
scene direction: giles heads toward his office
giles: i've got one.
scene direction: giles embarrassed
giles: i-i've been using it as a... paperweight.
scene direction: giles disappears into his office
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: this means i can't help you study for tomorrow's final.
buffy: ah, i'll wing it. of course, if we go to hell by then, i won't have to take 'em.
scene direction: buffy worried
buffy: or maybe i'll be taking them forever.
scene direction: giles comes back with the orb
giles: angel has a ritual of his own to perform before he can remove the sword and awaken acathla. with any luck, it should take some time.
scene direction: buffy stares at the orb as giles hands it to willow.
scene change: cut to angelus' mansion. spike paces in his room. he hears drusilla coming.
drusilla: spike?
scene direction: he quickly gets back into his chair. drusilla comes through the curtain into the room.
drusilla: spike, my sweet! the fun's about to begin.
scene direction: he wheels himself out of the room and heads for the main hall.
scene change: cut to the main hall before the obelisk. the two vampires drag in a young man, barefoot and bare-chested with his hands tied behind his back. they drop him to the floor before spike, angelus and drusilla.
scene direction: angelus comes toward the young man
angelus: i will drink... the blood will wash in me, over me, and i will be cleansed. i will be worthy to free acathla.
scene direction: angelus looks at spike
angelus: bear witness...
scene direction: angelus looks at drusilla
angelus: as i ascend...
scene direction: angelus looks ahead and morphs into his game face
angelus: as i become.
scene direction: he grabs the man by the hair and lifts him up, holding his head at an angle to expose his neck. he roars and bites the young man hard and fast on the neck. he drinks deeply, brings up his hand to brush it against the man's wound and then lets him fall to the floor dead. he looks at the blood on his hand. he lowers it and starts to walk slowly toward acathla.
angelus: everything that i am, everything that i have done, has led me here.
scene change: cut to manhattan, 1996. a bum steps up to a trashcan and begins to go through it. a man walks past him and on down the street. having found nothing, the bum makes his way into an alley with slow, labored steps. a boy runs past him with a package and disappears further down the alley.
scene direction: the bum, tired and weak, staggers into a concrete post at the side of the alley and stops. he coughs and rolls around to lean with his back against the post, and it's angel, tired, filthy and unkempt. he just breathes for a moment, and then smells something. he searches the alley with his eyes and spots a rat scampering across to the other side. he takes a couple of unsteady steps, brushes the hair from his face and begins to stalk the rat. it reaches the other side and disappears into a pile of trashcans and bags. angel dives after it, scattering the cans and bags noisily, but loses the rat. a man comes into the alley behind him. angel rolls over to sit and flails his arms at the trashcans in anger over missing the rat. the man comes up to him.
whistler: god, are you disgusting.
scene direction: angel calms down a bit and looks around himself.
whistler: this is really an unforgettable smell. this is the stench of death you're giving off here. and the look says, uh... crazy homeless guy. it's not good.
scene direction: angel angrily
angel: get away from me.
whistler: what are you gonna do, bite me?
scene direction: whistler gasps and jumps back
scene direction: horrors! a vampire!
scene direction: angel looks at him in surprise.
whistler: ah, but you wouldn't bite me on account of your poor, tortured soul. it's so sad, a vampire with a soul. it's so poignant.
scene direction: angel confused
angel: who are you?
whistler: let's take a walk.
scene change: cut to a ways down the street. the two of them walk along the sidewalk for a few paces and then turn into the street to cross to the hotdog stand on the other side. angel isn't paying any attention to the traffic, so whistler grabs his arm to stop him.
whistler: what are you eating?
scene direction: whistler they continue across
whistler: like, a rat once a month?
scene direction: angel strays and almost walks into another car. whistler grabs him again and pulls him back in time.
whistler: hey!
scene direction: whistler car honks, they continue
whistler: look, you're skin and bones here! butcher shops are throwing away more blood in a day than you could stand. good blood.
scene direction: whistler they reach the far side
whistler: you lived in the world a little bit, you'd know that.
angel: i wanna know who you are.
scene direction: angel stops
scene direction: whistler stops and faces him
whistler: and i wanna know who *you* are.
angel: you already do.
whistler: not yet. but i'm looking to find out. 'cause you could go either way here.
angel: i don't understand you.
whistler: nobody understands me. that's my curse.
scene direction: whistler chuckles
scene direction: he steps over to the street vendor and pulls out some cash.
whistler: dog me. mustard.
scene direction: he watches the vendor get out the hotdog and squirt on some mustard.
scene direction: whistler to angel
whistler: my name's whistler.
vendor: here you go.
scene direction: whistler takes the dog
whistler: thanks.
scene direction: whistler hands over a bill, turns to angel
scene direction: anyway, lately it is. (takes a bite) mm.
scene direction: angel looks down
angel: you're not a vampire.
whistler: a demon... technically. i mean, i'm not a bad guy. not all demons are dedicated to the destruction of all life.
scene direction: angel looks at him
angel: whadaya mean, i can go either way?
whistler: i mean that you can become an even more useless rodent than you already are, or you can become someone. a person. someone to be counted.
angel: i just wanna be left alone.
scene direction: angel starts away
whistler: well, yeah, you've been left alone for, what, ninety years already.
scene direction: whistler angel turns back
whistler: and what a package you are. the stink guy!
angel: what do you want from me?
whistler: i want you to see something.
scene direction: he gives angel an intense look. angel just looks at him.
whistler: we'd have to leave now. you see, and then you tell me what you wanna do.
angel: where is it?
scene change: cut to hemery high school in los angeles, 1996. school is over for the day, and the students come streaming out. an old, rusted chevy impala with its windows spray-painted black pulls up on the far side of the street. the driver's window lowers, and angel squints out into the daylight, careful to remain in shadow. he looks over at the building and sees buffy come down the steps with three of her friends.
buffy: so i'm like, 'dad, do you want me to go to the dance in an outfit i've already worn? why do you hate me?' girl#1: is tyler taking you?
buffy: where were you when i got over tyler? he's of the past.
scene direction: buffy angel watches her
buffy: tyler would have to crawl on his hands and knees to get me to go to the dance with him. which, actually, he's supposed to do after practice, so i'm gonna wait.
girl#1: okay. see ya later.
girl#2: bye!
scene direction: buffy waves to girl#1
buffy: call me!
girl#1: okay!
scene direction: buffy waves to girl#2
buffy: call me!
scene direction: buffy waves to girl#3
buffy: call me!
girl#3: i will!
scene direction: buffy climbs back up a few steps and looks around. she takes off her jacket and sits down to wait for tyler. she lays the jacket across her legs and idly looks around again. a man in a black suit approaches her.
scene direction: he is her first watcher, who has finally found her.
watcher: buffy summers?
scene direction: buffy looks at him
buffy: yeah?
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: hi!
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: what?
watcher: i need to speak with you.
scene direction: buffy worried
buffy: you're not from bullock's, are you? 'cause i-i meant to pay for that lipstick.
watcher: there isn't much time. you must come with me. your destiny awaits.
scene direction: buffy confused, shakes her head
buffy: i don't have a destiny.
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: i'm destiny-free, really.
scene direction: watcher seriously
watcher: yes, you have. you are the chosen one. you alone can stop them.
buffy: who?
watcher: the vampires.
scene direction: buffy considers for a moment
buffy: huh?
scene change: cut to a cemetery. buffy lands flat on her back.
buffy: oof!
scene direction: a vampire props himself over her, growling menacingly. she is very frightened, and looks around frantically for what to do. angel watches from behind some gravestones. buffy spots her stake, but can't reach it, so she just gets her hands underneath the vampire and pushes him off. he flies off of her and lands hard on his back.
buffy: oh, god...
scene direction: she rolls onto her hands and knees and scrambles on all fours to retrieve her stake.
buffy: oh, god... oh... oh, god... unh!
scene direction: she grabs the stake and quickly gets to her feet. she looks at it, unsure of what to do next. the vampire gets up and lunges at her.
scene direction: reflexively she grabs him, sidesteps him and sends him flipping over to the ground again, dazed. she looks at the vampire, amazed by what she just did. she glances back at the watcher, down at her stake and then makes her move to dispatch the vampire. she quickly gets to her knees, raises the stake above her head and plunges it into him, but gets him in the gut instead of the chest.
buffy: oh! not the heart!
scene direction: angel watches, concerned. buffy plunges the stake into the vampire again, and this time hits her mark. an instant later the vampire bursts into ashes. buffy is caught by surprise, and she screams and jumps back, landing on her butt. she just stares at the ashes on the grass in wide- eyed shock. behind her the watcher steps up.
watcher: you see? you see your power?
scene direction: buffy isn't at all sure she wants to see. angel continues to watch.
scene change: cut to buffy's house in l.a. the camera looks into her room from outside. buffy comes in with her mother close behind.
joyce: why didn't you call?
scene direction: buffy faces her mom
buffy: i'm sorry. i-i didn't know it was so late. tyler and i were talking.
scene direction: joyce exhales
joyce: that boy is irresponsible.
buffy: no, mom. it's not his fault.
scene direction: buffy takes off her jacket
joyce: you know we worry, that's all.
scene direction: they look at each other for a moment, and joyce shrugs.
joyce: dinner's in ten minutes.
scene direction: joyce leaves
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: she goes through the other door into her bathroom. the camera pans from the bedroom window over to the bathroom window. she turns on the water to wash up from the cemetery. her parents talk in the hall, and she can hear as it escalates into an argument.
hank: did she say where she was?
joyce: she was with tyler.
hank: i don't want her seeing him anymore, period!
scene direction: angel looks in at her from outside.
joyce: you're overreacting, dear.
scene direction: buffy looks at herself in the mirror sadly. the tears begin to come.
hank: don't do that! don't talk to me like i'm a kid!
joyce: i don't! just forget it!
scene direction: angel continues to watch and listen.
hank: just because you can't discipline her, i have to be the ogre!
scene direction: buffy keeps on staring into the mirror.
joyce: i am not having this conversation again! alright?
scene direction: buffy looks down and tries hard not to cry.
scene change: cut to the sewers. angel arrives where whistler is waiting for him.
whistler: she's gonna have it tough, that slayer. she's just a kid. the world's full of big, bad things.
angel: i wanna help her.
scene direction: angel whistler looks at him
angel: i want... i wanna become someone.
whistler: god, jeez, look at you. she must be prettier than the last slayer.
scene direction: whistler angel looks away
whistler: this isn't gonna be easy. the more you live in this world, the more you see how apart from it you really are.
scene direction: whistler sternly
whistler: and this is dangerous work. right now, you couldn't go three rounds with a fruit fly!
scene direction: angel with resolve
angel: i wanna learn from you.
whistler: alright.
angel: but i don't wanna dress like you.
scene direction: angel starts to leave
scene direction: whistler follows
whistler: again, you're annoying me. you're lucky we need you on our side.
scene change: cut to angelus' mansion, 1998. he approaches acathla, still vamped out.
angelus: i have strayed, i have been lost. but acathla redeems me. with this act, we will be free.
scene direction: he grabs the hilt of the sword with both hands. a blindingly bright light emanates from it. drusilla smiles and bathes herself in it.
scene direction: angelus begins to shake with the power of the sword.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: in the main hall of angelus' mansion. he holds onto the sword tightly, trying to draw it out of acathla. it won't budge, and a moment later a bright red flame bursts from the sword, throwing angelus back and onto the floor.
scene direction: spike sing-song
spike: someone wasn't worthy.
scene direction: angelus scrambles to his feet
angelus: damn it!
scene direction: drusilla freaks out
drusilla: this is so... disappointing!
scene direction: drusilla moans
scene direction: angelus paces angrily
angelus: there must be something i missed. the incantations, the blood... i don't know!
scene direction: spike tries hard to suppress a snicker, hiding his mouth with his hand.
scene direction: drusilla whining
drusilla: what are we going to do?
scene direction: angelus menacingly
angelus: what we always do in a time of trouble: turn to an old friend.
scene direction: hope returns to drusilla's eyes.
scene direction: angelus viciously
angelus: we'll have our armageddon. i swear!
scene direction: he grabs a vase from a shelf and heaves it at the far wall, smashing it into hundreds of tiny pieces.
scene change: cut to class the next day. willow, buffy, xander, cordelia and the rest of the class are taking one of their final exams. everyone is intent on it. buffy looks up and glances around briefly, then turns her attention back on her paper.
scene change: cut to the hall. there are very few students. a mysterious figure with a shawl over its head walks slowly toward the room where the team is taking their test. the camera follows. the few students who pass don't take any notice.
scene direction: cut back to the class. everyone is concentrating on the test, and no one notices as the vampire comes in and pulls the shawl away from its face.
vampire: tonight... sundown...
scene direction: vampire everyone looks up
vampire: at the graveyard...
scene direction: teacher gets up
teacher: excuse me...
scene direction: exposed now to the daylight, the vampire begins to smoke.
vampire: you will come to him.
scene direction: vampire takes the shawl off
vampire: you will come to him or more will die.
scene direction: she points at buffy and ignites. buffy watches, taken aback by the vampire's direct approach at delivering her message.
vampire: tonight!
scene direction: the students scream, jump out of their chairs and begin to run from the room. cordelia and xander also jump up, but don't run. buffy remains calmly in her seat.
vampire: his hour is at hand!
scene direction: she combusts in a flash of flame and smoke. buffy just stares at the empty space before her.
scene change: cut to the library. xander, cordelia and willow are researching at the table. kendra approaches with her sheathed sword. the camera pulls back to show giles and buffy up on the mezzanine.
buffy: she said more would die. i have to go.
kendra: den i should go wit you.
scene direction: buffy faces kendra
buffy: no. i need you here just in case.
scene direction: buffy heads for the stairs
buffy: i can take care of myself. and look,
scene direction: buffy comes down
buffy: as long as angel's fighting me, then he can't do this end-of-the-world ritual thingy, and that's a good.
scene direction: buffy reaches the table
buffy: will, what do you think?
scene direction: willow looks over her research
willow: i just want to cross-check...
buffy: we don't have time. if this is gonna work, it has to work now.
willow: okay. then i need maybe half an hour once we're all set up.
scene direction: giles looks at the shelves
giles: which means you just have to hold angel off. don't let him close on you.
scene direction: giles pulls out a book
giles: if the curse succeeds, you'll, you'll know.
scene direction: he tosses the book down to xander. xander checks the title, and hands it to willow.
cordelia: why don't you just wait here to find out if it worked, see if he phones you?
buffy: i can't risk him killing any more people. i better go.
scene direction: buffy starts out
xander: be careful.
scene direction: buffy looks back
buffy: i will.
scene direction: buffy starts out again.
kendra: here...
scene direction: she grabs a stake from the table. buffy stops and looks back. kendra goes over to her and holds up the twisted but very sharp stake.
kendra: in case de curse does not succeed, dis is my lucky stake. i have killed many vampires wit it. i call it mr. pointy.
buffy: you named your stake?
scene direction: kendra a bit embarrassed
kendra: yes.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: remind me to get you a stuffed animal.
scene direction: she accepts the stake from kendra and looks it over.
buffy: thanks.
scene direction: kendra exhales
kendra: watch your back.
scene direction: buffy leaves the library.
scene change: cut to the cemetery. buffy walks through, watching all around as she goes. angelus walks out from behind a small mausoleum.
angelus: hello, lover. i wasn't sure you'd come.
buffy: after your immolation-o-gram? come on, i had to show. shouldn't you be out destroying the world right now, pulling the sword out of al franken or whatever his name is?
angelus: there's time enough. i wanted to say goodbye first. you are the one thing in this dimension i will miss.
buffy: this is a beautiful moment we're having. can we please fight?
angelus: i didn't come here to fight.
scene direction: buffy raises her eyebrows
buffy: no?
angelus: gosh, i was hoping we could get back together. what do you think? do we have a shot?
scene direction: angelus gets a look from buffy
angelus: alright. we'll fight.
scene direction: he rushes at her.
scene change: cut to the library. willow is sitting cross-legged on the table. before her is the orb of thesulah within a sacred circle and surrounded by candles, bones and stones. willow casts some stones. she looks at them and then gives giles a nod. he opens a book and reads the latin text.
giles: quod perditum est, invenietur.
translation: what is lost, return.
scene direction: cordelia swirls incense into the air while xander watches.
willow: 'not dead nor not of the living. spirits of the interregnum i call...' cut to the graveyard. buffy ducks a punch from angelus and comes up behind him. he spins around to block her return swing. he blocks another jab from her, and punches her in the face. he follows up with a left hook, and buffy loses her balance and nearly falls down. angelus grabs her by the back of her coat and throws her over onto the grounds. she rolls away and onto her back, and looks up at him.
buffy: come on, willow.
scene direction: she swiftly gets back to her feet to continue fighting.
scene change: cut to the library. kendra guards the main doors.
willow: 'let him know the pain of humanity, gods. reach your wizened hands to me. give me the sword...' suddenly a vampire comes out from the stacks and attacks xander from behind. the main doors fly open, and kendra spins around to defend as two more vampires walk in. giles points to the steps and yells at the girls as a fourth vampire appears from the stacks.
giles: get out! go!
scene direction: willow and cordelia make for the stairs. kendra punches the first of the two vampires to reach her. the fourth one jumps over the mezzanine railing and lands on giles' back, knocking him into the table. cordelia and willow run up the stairs and see xander elbow the vampire on his back, knocking the demon into a bookcase. having punched down the one vampire, kendra grabs the other and shoves her into the wall. the first one gets up and rushes in to fight. willow runs around behind the stacks to try to escape. cordelia is frozen in fright. giles grabs a vase from the table and smashes it over his attacker's head. xander's assailant rushes him again, but xander sidesteps him. he spins around, grabs xander and shoves him into a bookcase. the one down below hops up onto the table, runs across it and leaps over the railing above. willow sees him coming, and hides behind a bookcase. the vampire doesn't stop and just pushes the case over onto willow. she falls to the floor, and the books and case land on top of her, knocking her out. the vampire kendra is fighting ducks her swing. xander's opponent grabs his arm, loops his own around it tightly and pulls down, breaking it. xander yells out in pain. kendra ducks a roundhouse kick from her enemy and blocks several swings. xander grabs his tormenter's hair and smashes his head down on the railing. below giles ducks a swing and punches the vampire in the gut. kendra lands two punches in the face of her attacker. giles pounds his assailant on the back, but he just roars and spins around with a punch to giles' face, knocking him out. xander picks the dazed vampire up and shoves him into the other one going at cordelia, knocking him down.
xander: go!
scene direction: he grabs his broken arm and winces in pain. cordelia screams and runs out through the stacks. xander watches kendra's opponent punch her in the face, but kendra ducks and backs into her and comes up holding back the vampire's head. she plunges her stake into her heart, and she bursts into ashes. xander winces again in pain. willow lies prone under the fallen bookcase. kendra looks around for her next target. she sees the one going for giles, and rushes over to pull him off. she shoves him around to the floor. he tries to get up, but she just punches him back down. he tries again, and she grabs him and throws him through the window into giles' office. just then another one tackles her from the side.
scene change: cut to the cemetery. buffy punches angelus, but he takes it in stride.
scene direction: she swings again, but he grabs her arm and holds on tight. she swings with the other one, but he grabs it, too, and then pushes her away.
angelus: jeez, is it me, or is your heart not in this?
scene direction: buffy pulls out kendra's stake.
angelus: maybe i'll just go home, destroy the world.
buffy: well, i think mr. pointy'll have something to say about that. come on. let's finish this. you and me.
scene direction: angelus chuckles
angelus: y-you never learn, do you? this wasn't about you.
scene direction: this was never about you. (chuckles)
scene direction: she realizes the trap was set for the others, and begins to run.
scene direction: angelus smiles
angelus: and you fall for it every single time!
scene change: cut to the library. a vampire punches kendra, and she stumbles, but regains her footing. up in the stacks the other one comes at xander and punches him in the face, knocking him out. below kendra is hit by a roundhouse kick, and falls. the library doors swing open, and drusilla walks in. the vampire tries to kick kendra, but she blocks it and swings out with her leg, tripping him, and gets back to her feet to face the other two, the one that came down from above, the other one now back out of giles' office. the third one is up again also, and they close in on her, but before any more fighting can ensue drusilla claps her hands.
drusilla: enough.
scene direction: she bids kendra come hither with her waving fingers. the other three just back off. kendra faces drusilla, ready to fight. drusilla walks around her and goads her on. kendra kicks at her, but drusilla blocks her easily, as well as two follow-up swings. she punches kendra and sends her spinning to the floor.
scene change: cut to a street. buffy runs like mad to get to the school.
scene change: cut to the library. drusilla ducks a kick from kendra and grabs her by the arms. she swings her around and shoves her away. kendra comes back at her again with a kick to the gut, and drusilla doubles over for an instant. kendra lunges at her, but drusilla grabs her by the throat and forces her back against the counter, gripping hard and choking her.
drusilla: look at me, dearie.
scene direction: she waves two extended fingers before kendra's eyes and begins to hypnotize her.
drusilla: be... in my eyes. be... in me.
scene direction: she lets go, and kendra is completely under her spell. she sways back and forth a bit, and kendra follows her every move to stay in contact with her eyes. drusilla backs away slightly, lowering her arms and never losing eye contact.
scene change: cut to the park. buffy races through, leaping a bench as she runs.
scene change: cut to the library. kendra continues to sway with drusilla. drusilla extends out the fingers of her right hand at her side. she smiles evilly as she swings her hand up and slices kendra's neck with her sharp nails.
scene direction: kendra grabs at her neck as it begins to bleed heavily, and collapses to the floor. drusilla watches her fall, and turns to look down at her.
drusilla: night-night.
scene direction: she kisses the air above her and turns to her accomplices.
drusilla: let's get what we came for, dears.
scene direction: two of them grab an unconscious giles by the arms and drag him from the library. drusilla and the third vampire follow them out.
scene direction: cut outside. buffy runs across the school grounds. cut into the halls.
scene direction: buffy throws open the door and rushes in. as she rounds a corner the scene slows. buffy runs down the hall in slow motion as whistler narrates over the scene.
whistler: bottom line is, even if you see 'em coming, you're not ready for the big moments.
scene direction: buffy barges into the library and stops.
whistler: no one asks for their life to change, not really. but it does.
scene direction: she looks around at the damage, and then sees kendra lying on the floor.
scene direction: she runs to her, still in slow motion, and skids down next to her on her knees. she sees that she's gone, and takes her hand.
whistler: so what are we, helpless? puppets? no. the big moments are gonna come. you can't help that. it's what you do afterwards that counts. that's when you find out who you are.
scene direction: buffy reaches up to kendra's face with her other hand and strokes it gently. behind her a police officer raises his gun at her.
officer: freeze!
scene direction: buffy looks back at him, seemingly caught red-handed.
whistler: you'll see what i mean.
scene direction: to be continued...