scene direction: sunnydale state beach at night. there is a large party going on with about fifty students in attendance. "mann's chinese", by naked, plays in the background. the camera pans from a few parked cars through the crowd of students laughing and celebrating and stops at a fire, where xander, cordelia and willow are warming themselves.
xander: all i'm saying is, it's a stupid idea to have a victory party at the beach. it's officially nippy.
scene direction: xander looks down at himself
xander: so say my nips.
willow: i think it's festive. a party with nature.
cordelia: well, it's the team's choice. it was their victory.
xander: team? swim team.
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: hardly what i'd call a team. the yankees. abbott and costello. the 'a'. now, those were teams.
cordelia: jealous?
xander: no. y-yes, but 'no' more than 'yes'.
scene direction: a member of the swim team staggers by with a girl under each arm.
xander: i mean, look at that.
scene direction: xander indicates them
xander: dodd mcalvy. last month he's the freak with jicama breath who waxes his back. he wins a few meets and suddenly inherits the cool gene?
cordelia: well, all i know is, my cheerleading squad wasted a lot of pep on losers. it's about time our school excelled at something.
willow: hmm. you're forgetting our high mortality rate.
scene direction: cordelia smiles at that.
scene direction: xander pumps his fist
xander: we're number one!
scene direction: xander looks around
xander: huh?
scene direction: he gets a few positive responses from nearby students. the camera pans from them over to buffy sitting by herself behind a pile of sand and staring out over the ocean with a tuned-out look on her face. after a moment another member of the swim team approaches her from behind.
cameron: beautiful.
scene direction: cameron stands behind her
cameron: isn't it?
scene direction: buffy still staring at the ocean
buffy: yeah. it's just so...
cameron: eternal. a true mother, giving birth to new life and devouring old.
scene direction: cameron sits behind her
cameron: always adaptable and nurturing... yet...
scene direction: constant... and merciless.
scene direction: buffy looks at him
buffy: boy. i was just gonna go with big and wet.
scene direction: cameron laughs
cameron: me and some of the other guys on the team, we come out here once a week to train in it. see, we swim against the current.
buffy: funny. that's how i feel most of the time.
scene direction: buffy turns to him
buffy: so, cameron walker, you just won the state semifinals. what are you going to do next?
cameron: i'm going to hang out with buffy summers. get to know her.
scene direction: buffy looks down for an instant
buffy: hey, pause that tape for a second.
cameron: hey. no pressure. i just like being around you. that's all.
scene direction: they both look out over the ocean for a moment. then behind them a lot of shouting and laughing starts.
jonathon: somebody help me!
scene change: buffy and cameron both turn to look. cut into the drink tub looking up through the ice floating on the surface. jonathon's face gets pushed into the water and shaken around. cut to dodd harassing him. he pulls jonathon's head back out of the tub and holds him back by the hair.
dodd: come on, jonny, you gotta hold your breath longer than that if you ever wanna make the team! hey, somebody time him!
scene direction: he shoves jonathon's head back into the tub. suddenly a hand appears on his shoulder and pulls him up, raising his short sleeve in the process.
scene direction: he has a tattoo of a mean-faced shark smoking a cigar on his upper arm.
dodd: hey!
buffy: nice tat. what, they ran out of tweety bird?
scene direction: she shoves him down to the ground. jonathon coughs at the side of the tub.
dodd: hey, what's your problem?
scene direction: cameron chuckles
cameron: you had it coming to you, bro.
scene direction: dodd gets up and starts to confront buffy, but gage gets between them.
gage: chill, dude. a bunch of us are gonna take a little night dip down on the beach. you in?
dodd: whatever.
scene direction: they start to go. buffy turns her attention to jonathon.
buffy: hey, let's, let's get you a towel.
scene direction: jonathon waves her off
jonathon: no. why don't you mind your own business? i can handle this without your help.
scene direction: jonathon leaves
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: see? it's fun to hang out with me.
scene change: cut to dodd and gage walking further down the beach.
dodd: i can't believe buffy. man, that girl gives me the creeps.
scene direction: he lags behind a bit and then stops, staring out over the ocean as gage continues to walk. he looks back and forth with his eyes between the ocean and gage walking ahead of him. after a long pause he continues to walk as well.
scene change: cut to gage. he smells something and stops in his tracks. he takes another sniff of the rank-smelling air.
gage: oh! dude! what is that foulness?
scene direction: he looks behind him and sees that dodd has disappeared.
gage: hey, dodd!
scene direction: gage looks around the other way
gage: dude!
scene direction: gage gives up
gage: huh.
scene direction: he goes on to the group of people gathered under the pier. the camera stops following him and pans up the beach. a muffled scream can be heard followed by some tearing sounds and painful moaning. finally a deep growl is heard as the camera reaches dodd, or at least what's left of him. it's just a pile of ripped-up clothes and torn and bloody skin steaming in the cold night air. the camera stops on his shark tattoo for a moment, then pans up to a large storm drain coming out of the hillside. a hunched-over creature walks into it.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: computer science class at sunnydale high school. the camera focuses on a pie chart appearing on a student's screen. willow walks up the aisle, and the camera follows her through the classroom as she looks around at the students' work.
willow: okay! good pie charts, everyone.
scene direction: willow looks at another
willow: good.
scene direction: willow looks at another
willow: all good.
girl: thanks.
scene direction: willow continues on
willow: nice.
scene direction: willow walks around another
willow: good.
scene direction: willow looks at gage's pc
willow: gage. your pie chart is looking a lot like solitaire...
scene direction: willow looks closer
willow: with naked ladies on the cards?
scene direction: gage looks up at her
gage: what's your point?
scene direction: the bell rings, and gage gets up to go.
willow: no point.
scene direction: principal snyder walks into the room past the leaving students. he spots gage and stops.
snyder: nice work in yesterday's meet, son. now, let's go for it.
scene direction: snyder pumps his fist
scene direction: gage gives him an acknowledging nod and continues out of the classroom.
scene direction: snyder turns his attention to willow.
willow: uh, hi there, sir.
snyder: rosenberg. how's the class? everything in order?
scene direction: willow worried
willow: well, actually...
scene direction: snyder interrupts
snyder: great. i've been talking to the board. we've been having trouble finding a competent teacher this late in the term. do you think you could continue subbing through finals?
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: oh! sure! i like teaching.
snyder: isn't that nice. you're a team player, and i like that. a team player wants everyone on the team to succeed. wants everyone to pass.
willow: well, yeah. sure.
scene direction: willow goes to her desk
scene direction: snyder follows her
snyder: i understand there's a problem with gage petronzi.
scene direction: he stops at one of the pc's and looks at it with his back to willow.
willow: oh, good, then you know. well, yeah. besides the behavior problem, he won't do homework, and his test scores are...
scene direction: snyder looks up exasperated, not wanting to hear this.
willow: well, actually, he doesn't have any test scores because he never shows up when we have...
scene direction: snyder turns to her and interrupts
snyder: i'm not interested in any of that. i'm interested in why, when this school is on the brink of winning its first state championship in fifteen years, you slap a crucial member of that team with a failing mark that would force his removal. is that how you show your school spirit?
scene direction: willow flustered
willow: yes. well, i mean... no. i'm just trying to grade fairly.
snyder: gage is a champion. he's under more pressure than the other students. and i think we need to cut him some slack.
scene direction: he starts to leave the classroom. willow considers his words for a moment.
willow: you're asking me to change his grade?
scene direction: willow faces him
scene direction: snyder stops and turns back
snyder: i never said any such thing.
scene direction: snyder steps over to her
snyder: all i'm suggesting is... that you recheck your figures, and i think we'll find a grade more fitting to an athlete of gage's stature.
scene direction: perhaps something in a 'd'.
scene direction: he turns and leaves. willow is unsure of how to deal with what he just told her.
scene change: cut to the halls. xander, cordelia and willow come down the stairs and walk down the hall.
xander: just like that? he actually told you to alter his grade?
willow: exactly. except for actually telling me to. but he made it perfectly clear of what he wasn't telling me.
xander: that is wrong, a big, fat, spanking wrong. it's a slap in the face to every one of us who studied hard and worked long hours to *earn*
scene direction: our d's.
cordelia: xander, i know you take pride in being the voice of the common wuss, but the truth is, certain people are entitled to special privileges. they're called winners. that's the way the world works.
xander: and what about that nutty 'all men are created equal' thing?
cordelia: propaganda spouted out by the ugly and less deserving.
xander: i think that was lincoln.
scene direction: cordelia exhales
cordelia: disgusting mole and stupid hat.
willow: actually, it was jefferson.
cordelia: kept slaves. remember?
xander: you know what really grates my cheese? that buffy's not here to share my moral outrage about swim team perks.
scene change: cut to cameron's mustang pulling up to the school. buffy is in the passenger's seat.
xander: she's too busy being one of them.
cameron: i don't know, a dolphin. a dolphin in the ocean. because, you know, when i'm in the vastness of the ocean, it's...
scene direction: cameron they pull to a stop
cameron: it's like i'm never alone.
scene direction: he turns off the engine and leans against his door to face buffy. she leans her elbow against her door with her head propped up on her hand.
cameron: you ever hear of a woman named gertrude ederle?
buffy: no. no, i can't say that i have, cam.
cameron: first woman to swim the english channel.
scene direction: cameron buffy nods slowly, bored
cameron: same thing. i mean, she would talk to it. i mean, she'd carry on entire conversations with it. sometimes i do that. i mean, once i was out in...
scene direction: buffy sits up
buffy: you know what, cam? thanks. i'd forgotten how nice it is to just talk, or, in my case, listen, without any romantic pressure.
cameron: hey... i'm not about pressure. i just want you to be comfortable.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: i'm comfy! i'm so comfy, i'm nodding off actually, which is why...
scene direction: cameron interrupts
cameron: are you wearing a bra?
scene direction: cameron looks at her suggestively
scene direction: buffy in disbelief
buffy: what?
scene direction: cameron grins
cameron: come on. i mean, tell me you haven't been thinking about this ever since last night.
buffy: what i'm thinking about is that i should probably get out of this car...
scene direction: she reaches for the door lever, but cameron quickly hits the master lock button, locking her in.
cameron: relax. i'm not gonna hurt you.
buffy: oh, it's not me i'm worried about.
scene direction: cameron snickers
cameron: you like it rough!
scene direction: he reaches over to put his arm around her, and she grabs it and pulls him down toward her.
cameron: ow!
scene direction: with her other hand she grabs the back of his neck and jerks him up.
cameron: oh!
scene direction: she smashes his head into the steering wheel. the horn honks.
cameron: oh!
scene direction: he sits up and holds his nose in pain.
cameron: ah!
scene direction: buffy notices principal snyder outside of the car. he walks up to the front and looks in through the windshield at her.
cameron: oh, you broke my nose!
scene direction: buffy cringes at the sight of principal snyder.
cameron: ah!
scene direction: snyder raises his hand and motions with his finger for her to come with him. cameron groans in pain.
scene change: cut to nurse greenleigh's office. she slams a cold pack onto a table to start the chemical reaction and kneads it a little before holding it up to cameron's nose and gently laying it on.
cameron: ow!
scene direction: he takes hold of it, and the nurse leaves him alone. the camera pans over to buffy.
buffy: i wasn't the attacker, principal snyder. i was the attacked.
snyder: that's not how it looked from where i was standing.
cameron: i don't know what happened. i mean, first she leads me on, then she goes schizo on me.
scene direction: buffy steps over to him
buffy: lead you on? when did i lead you on?
cameron: oh, come on.
scene direction: cameron to snyder
cameron: i mean, look at the way she dresses.
scene direction: she looks down at herself. the door opens, and the swim team coach, carl marin, comes in. buffy steps back and leans against a table.
snyder: coach.
coach marin: how we doing, cameron?
scene direction: coach marin goes to him
scene direction: snyder follows
snyder: coach marin, how bad does it look?
coach marin: well, luckily, it's not broken, but sure as hell it's gonna sting for a few days.
scene direction: snyder leads the coach away from cam
snyder: i mean our chances of winning the state championship.
coach marin: oh.
snyder: can we still do it?
coach marin: i'm gonna need cameron back at a hundred and ten percent.
scene direction: uh, he's my best swimmer, now with dodd, uh...
buffy: what happened to dodd?
snyder: that's none of your concern. you'd better hope that boy's nose heals before the meet this friday.
scene direction: coach marin goes to cam
coach marin: walker, i want you to hit the steam room as soon as you're done here and try to keep those sinuses clear.
scene direction: coach marin to the nurse
coach marin: take care of my boy, ruthie.
nurse greenleigh: i always do.
scene direction: coach marin steps over to buffy
coach marin: and you... try to dress more appropriately from now on. this isn't a dance club.
scene direction: he leaves the office. snyder gives buffy a look and follows the coach out. cameron looks over at her and grins.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy stands between the cage and the table and talks toward the table behind the camera.
buffy: so i'm treated like the baddie just because he has a sprained wrist and a bloody nose.
scene direction: buffy considers
buffy: and i don't have a scratch on me, which, granted, hurts my case a little on the surface, but meanwhile he gets away with it because he's on the 'aren't we the most' swim team...
scene direction: the camera cuts to show xander, giles and willow studying a number of books at the table. they all look up at her.
buffy: ...who, by the way, if no one's noticed, have been acting like real jerks lately...
scene direction: she notices their expressions of impatience and tries to find some sympathy there. they have none to give.
buffy: so,
scene direction: buffy giggles nervously
buffy: anything new with you guys?
scene direction: buffy sits
giles: thank you for taking an interest. apparently, some remains were found on the beach this morning. some human remains.
willow: dodd mcalvy's remains.
buffy: vampire?
giles: no. no, he was eviscerated. nothing left but skin and cartilage.
xander: in other words, this was no boating accident.
buffy: so something ripped him open and ate out his insides?
willow: like an oreo cookie.
scene direction: willow xander shoots her a look
willow: well, except for, you know, without the chocolatey *cookie* goodness.
giles: yes. um, principal snyder has, has asked the faculty to keep the news quiet for now, um, so as not to unduly upset the students.
xander: for 'students': read 'swim team'.
willow: so, we're looking for a beastie.
giles: that, uh, eats humans whole... except for the skin.
scene direction: giles looks into his book
buffy: this doesn't make any sense.
xander: yeah. the skin's the best part.
buffy: any demons with high cholesterol?
scene direction: giles slowly turns to her and gives her a look.
scene direction: buffy points at giles
buffy: you're gonna think about that later, mister, and you're gonna laugh.
scene change: cut to the steam room in the boy's locker room. cameron sits in it alone. cut to another view of the locker room. the camera pans around it. the place is deserted. cut to the steam room. cameron feels his nose and groans. cut to the locker room. the camera slowly moves through it and looks around. cut to the steam room. cameron hears a noise and looks up and around. cut to the locker room. the camera has reached the steam room. on the adjacent lockers a shadow can be seen approaching the door.
scene direction: cut inside the steam room. cameron ignores the noise and goes back to relaxing. suddenly the door to the room opens, and he looks up startled and sees the coach come in.
coach marin: okay, son, i think you've had enough. time to hit the shower.
scene direction: coach marin walks off
scene change: cut to the student lounge. xander walks down the hall counting out change in his hand.
xander: too much research. need beverage.
scene direction: he walks through the doors to the lounge area and is practically run over by cameron coming down the other hall at a fast pace, knocking xander's change onto the floor.
cameron: hey! watch it.
xander: oh, forgive me, your swim teamliness.
scene direction: he makes a bowing gesture as he bends down to pick up his change.
scene direction: cameron turns to go.
cameron: loser.
xander: likin' the nose, cam. good look for you.
scene direction: xander stands back up
cameron: meaning what?
scene direction: cameron faces xander
scene direction: xander steps over to cam
xander: meaning buffy must not be on your list of privileges after all.
scene direction: xander chuckles while cam crosses his arms
xander: man, i love it when you guys mess with her.
scene direction: cameron shakes his head
cameron: you're lucky i'm hungry.
scene direction: xander in mock sympathy
xander: oh, the cafeteria's closed.
cameron: not to me.
scene direction: cameron leaves
scene direction: xander guffaws as he watches him go.
scene change: cut to the cafeteria. the camera pans past the empty steam table.
scene direction: cameron walks in the door and starts toward the kitchen. halfway through the dining area he stops and sniffs the air.
cameron: god, what is that?
scene change: cut to the hall. xander stands in front of the vending machine and contemplates his choice of beverage, pointing at the buttons on the front panel.
xander: grape, orange. orange, grape.
scene direction: suddenly he hears screaming and loud crashing noises coming from the cafeteria and turns to look, then starts to run.
scene change: cut to the cafeteria. xander comes rushing in. he slowly walks through while looking around. the place is a shambles, with tables and chairs knocked over everywhere. he sniffs the air and looks down as he passes a table. there he sees cameron's remains, just a pile of torn clothes and steaming skin.
xander: oh, my god.
scene direction: he puts his hand over his mouth in shock and fights back his urge to vomit. he straightens back up and turns to go. standing there blocking his way is a dark green humanoid sea monster with catfish whiskers, sharp teeth and three scaly ridges across the top of its head, roaring loudly. xander screams and backs away.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: the library. xander is standing behind cordelia sitting at the table and watches her sketch the monster he saw.
xander: no, no, no! the mouth's a lot bigger! and downward. like this.
scene direction: she looks at him make a face with the corners of his mouth turned down, and she sighs.
xander: with more teeth!
scene direction: she's had enough. she puts the sketchpad down, gets up and goes over to giles at the counter.
cordelia: i'm doing the best i can.
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses and looks up from his book over at xander.
giles: is that what you saw, xander?
scene direction: xander picks up and looks at the sketch
xander: y... yeah!
scene direction: xander considers
xander: i think so.
scene direction: xander considers some more
xander: pretty much.
giles: aaaaare you sure?
scene direction: cordelia faces xander and crosses her arms.
xander: well, it was dark! and the thing went through the window so quick, and i was a... little shocked when i saw it, and...
cordelia: go ahead. say it. you ran like a woman.
scene direction: cordelia grins
xander: hey, if you saw this thing, you'd run like a woman, too.
scene direction: willow and buffy come into the library and head for the counter.
willow: buffy was right. according to the statistics, dodd and cameron were the best swimmers on the team.
scene direction: willow hands giles the figures
buffy: first and second, actually. which means if my theory's correct, gage petronzi, the third-best swimmer on the team, would be the next item on the menu.
cordelia: god, this is so sad. we're never gonna win the state championship. i think i've lost all will to cheerlead.
scene direction: xander goes to the counter
xander: raise your hand if you feel her pain.
scene direction: cordelia gives him a disgusted look.
giles: if you're saying these killings aren't random, it would suggest someone's out for revenge.
buffy: and raise the possibility that someone brought forth this sea monster from whence it came to exact that revenge.
scene direction: buffy reconsiders her words
buffy: 'from whence it came'?
scene direction: buffy willow smiles
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: i'm spending *way* too much time around you.
xander: who would hate the swim team that much, though?
scene direction: xander gets looks from buffy and cordelia
xander: besides me, i mean.
scene direction: willow raises her hand
willow: ooo!
buffy: willow?
willow: jonathon! he was bullied by dodd the other day on the beach, remember?
buffy: he did say he could take care of things himself. it's a good call. you should question him.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: really? me?
scene direction: willow menacingly
willow: i'll crack him like an egg.
giles: meanwhile, i think, uh, swimmer number three might benefit from your... watchful eye and protection. discreetly, of course.
buffy: i'm on it.
scene direction: buffy leaves
xander: what about me? what can i do?
cordelia: well, you could go out to the parking lot and practice running like a man.
scene direction: xander hugs his arms around himself to protect against the sting of her words.
scene change: cut to the student lounge. gage is sitting and playing with his gameboy on one of the couches with his feet up on the table. the camera pulls back until buffy is also in view, sitting in a chair and watching him while pretending to read a magazine. gage can feel her eyes on him and shoots her a glance. buffy quickly jerks her head back to stare into her magazine. gage shakes the feeling off and goes back to his gameboy.
scene direction: buffy slowly turns her head to watch him again.
scene change: cut to willow's classroom. jonathon is sitting in a chair at the front of the room. willow aims a reading lamp at him. the camera pans from it up to her face, determined to get what she wants out of him.
willow: so, jonathon.
scene direction: willow crosses her arms
willow: you tried out for the swim team twice and never made it?
scene direction: jonathon fidgets
jonathon: i'm asthmatic. i couldn't keep up.
willow: you resented it, didn't you?
jonathon: maybe.
scene direction: willow approaches him
willow: you hated being pushed around by dodd and the others.
jonathon: so?
scene direction: willow walks around to his other side
willow: so, you wanted revenge. didn't you?
scene direction: willow leans in suddenly
scene direction: willow sternly
willow: didn't you?!
scene direction: jonathon nervously
jonathon: yeah! okay? i did!
scene direction: willow smiles and straightens back up
willow: so... you delved into the black arts and conjured up a hellbeast from the ocean's depths to wreak your vengeance.
jonathon: huh?
willow: didn't you?
scene direction: jonathon confused
jonathon: what? no! i snuck in yesterday and... peed in the pool.
scene direction: willow disappointed
willow: oh.
scene direction: willow disgusted
willow: eww!
scene direction: he looks down in shame.
scene change: cut to the halls. principal snyder and coach marin walk in from outside and walk into the student lounge.
coach marin: this is such a blow. sooner or later, the rest of my boys are gonna find out. how can i ask them to swim?
scene direction: snyder quietly
snyder: it's a terrible, terrible tragedy. we all feel your pain, coach. i don't know two finer boys than cameron and... that other one.
scene direction: snyder they stop
snyder: but i know they'd want their friends to go on and win that state championship. it's time to think about the team.
coach marin: well, i don't have a complete team as it is. if we don't find someone by this afternoon's tryouts, we won't be eligible to compete.
snyder: you'll find someone.
scene direction: snyder they continue
snyder: all he has to do is wear a bathing suit, right?
scene direction: the camera follows them for a moment and then stops on xander. he overheard, and he looks back and watches them go.
scene change: cut to the bronze. there's a dj tonight and no cover charge. people come and go. cut inside. the dj is playing "if you'd listen", by nero's rome.
scene direction: buffy is at the bar sucking on a drink and watching gage at a pool table practicing shots by himself.
lyrics: if you'd listen, we wouldn't have to go through this gage takes a shot and makes it. he walks around the table for his next one.
lyrics: if you'd just let me finish / stop cuttin' and jumpin' ahead gage bends down and makes his next shot.
lyrics: yeah, if you'd just shut your pretty mouth / you'd save yourself some tears buffy is bored at the bar, and gets up. she looks around nonchalantly and walks closer to the table, then gets behind a pillar and peeks out from behind it at gage. her change of position is not lost on gage, and he stiffens up, frustrated at being watched so closely. he shoots her a look, and she quickly looks away. gage has had enough. he puts down his pool cue and walks around behind the pillar.
lyrics: you came back from the bathroom buffy peeks back at the pool table and sees he's gone. she steps around to the other side of the pillar to look around and practically runs into gage.
lyrics: with somethin' on your shoe she steps back over to the pool table side of the pillar, and gage follows her around the other way and leans against it.
lyrics: yeah, draggin' it behind you gage: this me-and-my-shadow act? it's getting old. what do you want from me?
lyrics: lookin' kinda foolish buffy: well, um...
scene direction: lyrics exhales nervously
lyrics: it's a little embarrassing. you see, i'm a swim groupie.
scene direction: gage unconvinced
gage: aha.
buffy: oh, yeah.
scene direction: buffy smiles and exhales
buffy: you know, there's just something about the smell of chlorine on a guy. oh, baby.
scene direction: gage disbelieving
gage: hmm.
scene direction: gage turns to go
scene direction: buffy runs around him
buffy: uh, okay, okay, okay.
scene direction: buffy stops him
buffy: obviously, my sex appeal is on the fritz today, so i'll just give it to you straight. there's something lurking out there, and it's making fillets of the populace, and i think you might be next.
gage: uh-huh. and you think that because?
buffy: well, it's already attacked. it's already killed some people.
gage: you're one twisted sister, you know that? cam told me about your games. go find someone else to harass.
scene direction: he bumps her as he walks past her and out of the bronze. buffy sighs and looks down in defeat.
scene direction: cut outside the bronze. gage comes striding out.
gage: what a psycho bitch, man.
scene direction: angelus comes out from behind a pile of crates.
angelus: gotta be talking about buffy.
scene direction: gage stops and faces him
gage: how'd you know?
angelus: uh, she and i... had this thing once. biggest mistake of my life.
gage: yeah. my condolences, dude.
scene direction: gage turns and goes
scene direction: angelus follows
angelus: she's a real head-tripper.
gage: tell me about it. girl acts like she's god's gift or something.
angelus: who is she? the chosen one?
gage: exactly.
angelus: you know, what she really needs is for someone to really knock her down off her notches.
gage: yeah, that'd be sweet. anyone in mind?
angelus: you're in luck, my friend.
scene direction: gage turns to look at angelus and sees that he has disappeared.
angelus: just so happens...
scene direction: gage turns back quickly and sees angelus standing there in front of him in his game face.
angelus: ...i'm recruiting.
scene direction: gage looks horrified as angelus grabs him and bites his neck.
gage: no!
scene direction: buffy strolls out of the bronze and hears gage's screams.
gage: ah! somebody! help! ah! help! ah! ah! get him off me! help! ah!
scene change: she rushes to his aid. cut to angelus. he drops gage and begins to spit out his blood. he wipes his mouth and spits some more. buffy comes running around the corner, and just as he looks up she does a roundhouse kick to his face. he isn't fazed, and just looks at her. she pulls out the stick holding her hair up and holds it ready to stake him as her hair falls down around her face.
angelus: why, miss summers! you're beautiful!
scene direction: he quickly bends down, picks gage up and throws him at her, knocking her to the pavement. he spits a few more times and leaves smiling.
scene direction: buffy scrambles to her feet and watches him go. gage gets up also and rubs his neck.
gage: oh. was that the thing that killed cameron?
buffy: no. that was something else.
scene direction: gage confused
gage: s-something else?
buffy: yeah. unfortunately, we have a lot of something elses in this town. good night.
scene direction: buffy goes
scene direction: gage looks back and forth between buffy and the direction angelus went.
gage: hey!
scene direction: buffy stops and looks back at him. he goes over to her.
scene direction: gage laughs nervously
gage: walk me home?
scene direction: she motions for him to follow, and they leave.
scene change: cut to the pool at sunnydale high school. six members of the swim team are on the blocks ready to start a heat.
coach marin: swimmers! take position!
scene direction: they all bend down to dive in. the coach blows his whistle, and they're off. he walks along the edge of the pool past the stands as they swim.
scene direction: willow, buffy and cordelia are watching from the stands. in the middle of the pool gage stops, stands up and lifts off his goggles.
coach marin: keep the stroking up. alright. keep it going, keep it going all the way to the end. all the way to the end. breathe deep.
scene direction: gage sees buffy in the stands and waves to her. the coach blows his whistle. buffy waves back to gage discreetly, but willow notices and gives her a smile. buffy looks back at her with a smile.
coach marin: gage! you with us or not?
scene direction: coach marin gage swims off
coach marin: c'mon, let's go!
scene direction: cordelia to buffy
cordelia: so he spit it out? i thought angel liked blood.
buffy: he used to.
willow: maybe his eyes were too big for his stomach.
buffy: or maybe there was something in gage's blood that angel didn't like. say, for example, steroids.
willow: that would explain all their behavioral changes.
cordelia: and their winning streak.
willow: so maybe whatever's in their blood is what's attracting this creature to them.
buffy: any luck researching our fish monster?
cordelia: zippo. we couldn't find any sea demon that matched the description that xander gave us. not that chicken little's much of a witness, but...
scene direction: her eye is caught by a swimmer coming out of the locker room.
cordelia: oh.
scene direction: the camera cuts to a shot of the swimmer's knees and pans up along his athletic legs, past his crimson speedo's and tight abs and up to his hairless chest.
cordelia: oh! oh, my! now, that, girls, is my kind of...
scene direction: the camera reaches the swimmer's face.
willow: xander?
scene direction: willow stares in wide-eyed shock
scene direction: cordelia shocked
cordelia: xander?!
scene direction: when he hears their voices he scrambles over to a pile of kickboards, grabs the one off the top and hides himself behind it. the girls all get up and come down from the stands. xander scrambles over to them.
cordelia: what the hell are you doing here?
xander: shh! i'm undercover.
buffy: not under much.
scene direction: buffy grins
cordelia: get out of here before someone sees you impersonating a member of the swim team!
xander: i don't do impersonations. i tried out for the team last night. i made it.
scene direction: cordelia intrigued
cordelia: really?
xander: yeah. i figured i can keep an eye on gage and the others when buffy can't.
scene direction: willow eyes wide
willow: when you're nude?
scene direction: willow gets a nudge from buffy
willow: i-i meant to say 'changing'.
coach marin: harris! you can flirt on your own time!
xander: okey-dokey, coachie.
scene direction: he backs away and goes to join the rest of the team, covering his butt with his free hand. he lamely tosses the kickboard back onto the pile, but it just falls off. he reaches the others and listens in on what the assistant swim coach is saying.
scene direction: cordelia smiles proudly
cordelia: i'm dating a swimmer from the sunnydale swim team!
buffy: you can die happy.
scene direction: she and willow watch as xander gets up on a starting block and puts on his swim cap.
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: what about jonathon? is he involved?
willow: oh, no. he just... sort of... peed in the pool.
buffy: oh.
scene direction: the girls look back at xander to watch as he dives in. his dive is a bit sloppy, but not at all bad. the girls all look on in wide-eyed shock as they realize what he just dove into.
scene direction: buffy cringes
buffy: oh!
scene change: cut to the steam room after practice. the camera looks in through the window from the locker room. xander joins the others and finds an available spot.
xander: don't you guys get claustrophobic in here?
scene direction: xander sits
xander: i mean, what's the deal? you perspire a lot. you can't breathe. o-or read. i mean, i guess you could, but the pages would probably get all wet.
scene direction: the camera pans down from the window to a grate in the floor of the locker room. several green, clawed fingers poke through and lift up the grating.
scene change: cut to the halls outside of the locker room. buffy waits for xander and gage to come out. she leans against the wall and exhales. a moment later xander comes out with a towel over his head, rubbing his hair dry.
xander: you gotta love this undercover deal. twenty minutes in a hot room with a bunch of sweaty guys...
buffy: where's gage?
xander: i don't know. he was right behind me, putting his sneakers on.
scene direction: but it's not the velcro kind, so give him a couple of extra minutes.
scene direction: (taps her on the shoulder) tag. you're it. (leaves)
scene direction: buffy sighs and resigns herself to waiting.
scene change: cut to the locker room. gage is tying his shoes on a changing bench. he sniffs, smelling something foul. he sniffs at his own armpits to see if it isn't himself he smells. it's not, and he gets up to investigate. he walks through the locker room looking around, passing the steam room and the whirlpool bath. the smell gets stronger as he goes down a row of lockers. he sniffs deeply outside of one and opens it.
scene change: cut to the hall. buffy is still waiting for gage to come out. suddenly she hears him scream.
gage: oh, my god!
scene direction: she wastes no time running into the locker room.
scene change: cut to the locker room. one of the monsters stands before gage. it roars as he screams.
gage: help me! help me! ah! help me!
scene direction: buffy comes rushing in and pushes the terrified gage away from the monster. the creature roars, and buffy confronts it with a look of disgust, but it just stands there and doesn't move to attack her. behind her gage has collapsed to the floor and continues to scream, not in fear anymore but instead in agony, and writhes on the floor in pain. buffy looks back at gage, concerned.
buffy: gage?
scene direction: he reaches out to her for help, but can't get up and continues to convulse. buffy takes a step closer, but then stops and stares at him in shock. he has managed to get to his knees and pulls open his shirt. then he grabs at his chest and begins to tear open his skin. beneath is the chest of another monster. gage holds up his hand and watches as the skin tears along the back and a green, clawed hand emerges. buffy takes a quick look behind her at the other monster, but it's not advancing, so she turns back to gage and continues to watch, dumbfounded. the monster that was gage now stands up, and what's left of gage's clothes and skin fall away from him. buffy stares up at it in horror and starts to back off. it roars, advances on her and takes a swipe at her with its sharp claws. the first monster advances on her from behind now, and she finds herself trapped between them.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the boys' locker room. buffy is trapped between the two sea creatures.
scene direction: she does a roundhouse kick to the one behind her and uses her angular momentum to follow up with a high kick to the other one, knocking it to the floor. she grabs a trashcan and throws it at the first one, but it just deflects the can. buffy grabs a mop leaning against the wall and thrusts it at the second monster as it gets up, spins around with it to hit the first one in the face, knocking it down, and then jabs the other one again in the side. it is momentarily stunned, and buffy follows up with another swing of the mop to its back and a kick to its chest, making it fall to the floor. the first creature is back up, grabs buffy from behind, turns her around and sinks its sharp teeth deeply into her arm. she screams out in pain. the monster shoves her away into a bank of lockers, and she falls to the floor. coach marin suddenly appears and quickly helps her to her feet. the two monsters give up the fight and launch themselves across the floor and slide one after the other into the still-open grate.
scene change: cut to the school nurse's office. she finishes bandaging buffy's arm.
scene direction: giles and the coach are standing behind her by the window.
nurse greenleigh: i don't think that this is going to need stitches, but you might wanna have your family physician take a look at it.
scene direction: nurse greenleigh walks off
scene direction: giles approaches buffy
giles: how are you?
buffy: i'm definitely feeling the burn.
scene direction: giles to coach marin
giles: well, the, uh, good news is that it would appear that none of your team actually died.
buffy: but the bad news is... they're monsters.
coach marin: how could this happen?
giles: are you saying you don't know?
coach marin: well, you work so hard, you start to win suddenly. you think it's just you. you're inspiring the boys to greatness. but in the back of your mind, you start to wonder.
giles: you never asked any of the boys if they were taking anything?
coach marin: maybe i was afraid to.
scene direction: buffy and giles exchange a look.
scene change: cut to willow's classroom. she, buffy and xander are at the computer surfing through the school medical files.
buffy: there.
willow: dodd mcalvy: torn tendon. gage petronzi: fractured wrist, depression, headaches.
buffy: it's all there in the school medical records.
willow: all symptomatic of steroid abuse.
xander: but is steroid abuse usually linked with, 'hey, i'm a fish'?
willow: there must be something else in the mix. but the point is, these boys were obviously drugged.
buffy: and nurse greenleigh treated every one of them. she must have known.
willow: if steroids are that dangerous, why would they do that to themselves?
buffy: they needed to win. and winning equals trophies, which equals prestige for the school. you see how they're treated. it's been like that forever.
xander: sure. the discus throwers got the best seats at all the crucifixions.
buffy: meanwhile, i'm breaking my nails every day battling the forces of evil, and my french teacher can't even remember my name.
xander: so what's the drill? get nurse greenleigh?
scene direction: willow stands up
scene direction: willow sternly
willow: let's throw the book at her!
buffy: she probably went home for the day. i think it can wait. xander, why don't you see if you can find out what these boys are taking, or at least how they're taking it? powders, pills, syringe?
xander: i'm lookin'-around guy.
willow: what about you?
buffy: giles loaded up the tranquilizer gun. we're going fishing.
scene change: cut to the sewers. it's dark and very wet. buffy comes around a corner with a flashlight, scanning as she goes. behind her giles follows with his dart gun held ready. they hear a noise ahead of them, and giles raises the gun to take aim. buffy shines the flashlight, and they see it was only a rat. she puts her hand on his arm to stop him, and he lowers the rifle. they continue on and come to an intersection in the tunnels.
scene direction: buffy shines her light down one of them, and gestures to giles that they should go that way. she takes another quick look in the other directions and begins down the adjacent tunnel. giles looks around again also, and then follows buffy. they both walk down past the camera, then it focuses on the tunnel opposite the direction they came, and one of the creatures pokes its head around the corner to watch them as they go around a corner further down the tunnel.
scene change: cut to the boys' steam room. the entire swim team is relaxing in the fog.
xander: i feel good! lovin' the swimmin'. had some carrot juice this morning... a little wheat germ mixed in with it. woke me right up. nothin' like it, huh? breakfast of state champions. you betcha. okay.
scene direction: so... when do we get our next dose?
sean: what do you mean?
xander: who's carrying? i need a little something to improve my performance. give me an edge. rrr!
scene direction: xander chuckles
scene direction: sean just looks away.
xander: the steroids. where are they?
scene direction: sean chuckles
sean: you're soakin' in it, bud.
xander: huh?
scene direction: sean inhales deeply and exhales
sean: aromatherapy. it's in the steam.
scene direction: xander gives him a stunned look.
scene change: cut to the pool. the nurse follows the coach at a brisk pace.
nurse greenleigh: this has *got* to stop, carl. those poor children.
coach marin: what, are you a quitter? we got no room for quitters on *this* team.
nurse greenleigh: do you even understand what's happening? listen to yourself.
coach marin: i'm very close to perfecting this. we just need to adjust the mix.
scene direction: they head down some stairs to the pool equipment room below.
nurse greenleigh: carl. you can't be thinking of continuing to expose these boys.
coach marin: they're gonna be the best. i don't accept anything less.
nurse greenleigh: they're gonna be monsters. carl, please. don't make it any worse. you've already lost three.
scene direction: the coach stops and looks at the nurse.
coach marin: lost? why, they're not lost.
scene direction: he grabs her by the arms, pulls her around and shoves her down into a hole to a pool of water in the sewers below. she screams as she falls.
scene direction: the water is not deep, and she quickly gets to her feet, wipes the water from her eyes and looks up at him through the hole.
nurse greenleigh: carl! what are you doing?!
coach marin: i'm just lookin' after my boys. they may be out of the game right now, but they're still a team. and a team's gotta eat.
scene direction: he lifts the grating back into place.
nurse greenleigh: carl!
coach marin: you quitter.
scene direction: he stands there to watch. nurse greenleigh looks around and begins to panic. suddenly she screams and gets pulled under the water.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the library. xander paces. giles gets up from cleaning his glasses and heads for the table, where willow and buffy are sitting. cordelia is on the stairs to the mezzanine level behind the table.
giles: they're absorbing the steroid mixture through the steam.
scene direction: xander follows him
xander: not they. we. me! we have to find an antidote, don't you think? the clock is ticking, people!
buffy: i wouldn't break out the tartar sauce just yet. i mean, it's not like you were exposed more than once.
scene direction: buffy gets a worried look from xander
scene direction: twice?
xander: three times a fish guy.
scene direction: xander crosses his arms
buffy and willow: oh...
cordelia: whoa.
xander: what am i gonna do?
cordelia: you, you, you. what about me? it's one thing to be dating the lame unpopular guy, but it's another to be dating the creature from the blue lagoon.
scene direction: xander paces over to her
xander: black lagoon. the creature from the blue lagoon was brooke shields. and thank you *so* much for your support!
scene direction: xander sits by her
scene direction: buffy quietly to giles and willow
buffy: i think we'd better find the rest of the swim team and lock them up before they get in touch with their inner halibut.
giles: yes. yes, good. uh, we also need to know exactly what's in this, this steroid gas so that the hospital's toxicology lab can develop an antidote.
scene direction: willow stands up
willow: well, i'll talk to nurse greenleigh.
buffy: you're really getting into this interrogation thing.
willow: the trick is not to leave any marks.
scene direction: willow leaves
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: on that note, i think i'm gonna go have a little talk with our coach. somehow, i doubt all he's been giving these boys is inspiration.
scene direction: buffy leaves
scene change: cut to the pool equipment room. the coach leads buffy to the same hole through which he shoved nurse greenleigh.
coach marin: you got some imagination, missy.
buffy: oh, well right now, i'm imagining you in jail. you're wearing a big, orange suit, and, oh, look, the guards are beating you up.
coach marin: you don't have any proof.
scene direction: buffy stops following
scene direction: buffy sternly
buffy: tell me what's in the steam.
scene direction: coach marin faces her
coach marin: after the fall of the soviet union, documents came into light detailing experiments with fish dna on their olympic swimmers. tarpon... mako, shark... but they couldn't crack it.
buffy: and you did... sort of. why?
coach marin: what kind of question is that? for the win! to make my team the best they could be! do you understand we have a shot at the state championship?
buffy: do you understand that i don't care? it's over. there's not gonna be any swim team.
coach marin: boy, when they were handin' out school spirit, you didn't even stand in line, did you?
buffy: no. i was in the line for shred of sanity.
scene direction: the coach reaches into the desk behind him and pulls out a beretta 9mm semi-automatic pistol. he pulls back the hammer and points the gun at buffy.
buffy: which you obviously skipped.
coach marin: get in the hole!
scene direction: coach marin indicates with the gun
scene direction: buffy looks down at the hole and back up at the coach.
coach marin: in! now!
scene direction: she sits down on the edge with her legs dangling in and looks up at him.
buffy: this isn't over.
coach marin: in!
scene direction: she gives him one last look and drops herself into the water below. it's about a fifteen-foot drop, so she submerges completely and comes back up soaked through and wiping the water from her eyes. she looks up at the coach leaning over the hole.
coach marin: you think i don't care about my boys. but i do. they count on me.
scene direction: buffy understands now, and looks around for the monsters. when she turns back around she screams at the sight of what's left of nurse greenleigh's body as it floats by. she looks back up at the coach.
buffy: so, what, you're just gonna feed me to 'em?
coach marin: oh, they've already had their dinner. but boys have other needs.
scene change: cut to the pool. xander and cordelia come walking in looking for other members of the swim team. xander is rubbing his neck, expecting to find gills growing there.
cordelia: no one. willow and giles must've rounded up the rest of the swim team.
xander: does my neck look scaly to you?
cordelia: well, of course it looks scaly, the way you've been rubbing it dry like an idiot.
xander: i need to look in a mirror. wait here. but feel free to come in if you hear me scream.
scene direction: he runs off into the locker room. cordelia keeps walking around the pool. she hears a door close and glances behind her, but sees no one.
scene direction: she continues along the side of the pool. she hears a door open, and assumes it's xander.
cordelia: any gills yet?
scene direction: behind her a creature comes in and jumps into the pool. she looks into the pool, but at first can't make out the monster because of the splash on the surface.
cordelia: xander, what are you doing?
scene direction: cordelia giggles
cordelia: xander?
scene direction: the creature swims beyond the splash, and cordelia can see it clearly now.
cordelia: oh, my god! xander!
scene direction: she walks along the edge of the pool, following the monster as it swims under water.
scene direction: cordelia very upset
cordelia: it's me, cordelia? i know you can't answer me, but... god, this is all my fault. you joined the swim team to impress me. you were so courageous. and you looked really hot in those speedo's.
scene direction: cordelia chuckles
cordelia: and i want you to know that i still care about you, no matter what you look like. and... and we can still date. or, or not. i mean...
scene direction: i understand if you wanna see other fish. (crouches by the edge) i'll do everything i can to make your quality of life better. whether that means little bath toys or whatever.
scene direction: xander walks up behind her.
xander: uh, cordy?
scene direction: cordelia spins around quickly, startled, and draws a frightened breath.
scene direction: xander points into the pool
xander: that's not me.
scene direction: they both look at the creature. it suddenly makes a lunge for them from the water, and cordelia screams. xander pulls her up and away, and they run from the pool area.
cordelia: oh, my god!
scene change: cut to the library. giles leads the other swim team members into the cage.
giles: i-in you go.
scene direction: they are all a bit confused, but obey none the less.
giles: stay calm, chaps.
scene direction: giles closed the door
giles: either we'll find an effective antidote, or, or, uh... s-stay calm.
scene direction: giles goes to willow
willow: everyone's accounted for except sean.
scene direction: xander and cordelia come into the library.
cordelia: i think we can safely say we've found sean. he was in the pool skinless-dipping.
xander: where's buffy?
willow: she hasn't come back yet.
scene change: cut to the sewers. the camera pans around the pool of water. one of the monsters pokes its head out of the water behind a pillar and observes buffy. the camera continues until it stops on her.
buffy: great. this is just what my reputation needs: that i did it with the entire swim team.
scene direction: another one of the creatures pokes its head up to look at buffy. she makes a tentative jump to see about getting out of there. she hears them growl, and looks around. the one by the pillar submerges again and begins to swim. buffy looks into the water to try to see where they are.
scene direction: cut underwater. one of them swims right past her legs. she sees its head emerge further away from her, and draws a frightened breath.
scene change: cut to the pool equipment room. xander walks in and spots the coach leaning over the hole and gloating.
xander: what's up, coach?
scene direction: coach marin looks back, startled
coach marin: oh! harris. uh...
scene direction: coach marin stands up
coach marin: how you feelin'?
xander: little dry. nothing a lemon butter sauce won't cure.
scene direction: they both chuckle nervously.
xander: where's buffy?
scene direction: the coach's eyes focus on his gun laying on a barrel just behind xander.
scene change: cut to below. buffy keeps looking for the sea monsters. one suddenly rises up behind her and lunges at her. she quickly grabs it and throws it aside. another one comes for her, and she deflects it into the wall, but loses her balance and falls underwater. one grabs her leg, and she kicks out. she grabs it and throws it off of her. standing again, she grabs another one's arm as it attacks her and flips it over into the wall.
scene direction: cut above. coach marin makes a grab for his gun, but xander grabs his arm, pounds it into the barrel and makes him drop it. he elbows the coach in the face, who falls over unconscious.
scene direction: cut below. buffy knocks and flips the monsters away as they each come for her in turn. soon they've had enough, and the three of them surround her and slowly close in.
scene direction: cut above. xander steps over to the hole and looks down. when he sees what's going on below he quickly lies down and reaches into the hole with his arm.
xander: buffy, hurry! your hand!
scene direction: buffy looks up and sees him there. she takes a breath, crouches down into the water and leaps up the ten feet to grab xander's hand.
xander: hold on!
scene direction: he starts to pull for all he's worth. below the creatures paw at buffy's legs, trying to pull her back down. two of them grab hold, and she kicks and flails to shake them off. the monsters can't keep hold of her, and fall into the water.
buffy: pull!
xander: hold on!
scene direction: he pulls again, but he's not as strong as he thinks and it goes slowly.
scene direction: one of the monsters leaps up and grabs buffy's leg again. she kicks it with her free leg and it goes tumbling down. xander pulls again as buffy raises her legs up out of the creature's reach. slowly she emerges from the hole and climbs onto the floor, coughing and panting.
buffy: thanks.
xander: just doin' my part for our team.
scene direction: behind him the coach has regained consciousness, and hits xander across the back with a large pipe wrench.
buffy: oh!
scene direction: he starts to take a swing at buffy with it, too, but she ducks away and trips him with her leg. he falls and screams as he rolls into the hole.
scene direction: buffy reacts fast and grabs his ankle.
coach marin: don't let go! don't let go of me! hold me!
scene direction: buffy can't maintain her grip, and he falls into the water below. the coach stands up in the water, shaking it out of his face and coughing.
scene direction: buffy reaches down
buffy: grab my hand!
scene direction: he's too busy being worried about his sea monsters surrounding him to listen to what buffy is saying.
coach marin: boys! boys, uh, now, now, boys! no! i...
scene direction: they attack him.
coach marin: no, boys!
scene direction: he screams and struggles as they pull him under. buffy pulls her arm back up.
buffy: those boys really love their coach.
scene change: cut to the school lounge. willow and buffy are sitting on one of the couches opposite xander and cordelia on the other.
xander: let's see. i gotta take a make-up chem test at three. and then i'm meetin' some of the guys for plasma transfusions at five. it's turned into quite the busy afternoon.
buffy: the fun never stops with you, does it?
willow: giles seems pretty confident that the treatments are gonna work.
xander: well, turning into a creepy-crawly wasn't on my top ten list of things to do before i turn twenty.
scene direction: cordelia to xander
cordelia: i want you to know that you've really proven yourself to me. and you don't have to join the new team next year if you don't want. i'd be just as happy if you played football.
scene direction: cordelia smiles
scene direction: buffy and willow exchange an amused look. giles comes up the steps to them.
giles: the... people from animal control have just left. our creatures have apparently made a, a dash for it. um... so to speak.
willow: does that mean we're gonna have to hunt them again?
buffy: no, i don't think so. i don't think we'll be seeing them anymore.
giles: where do you think they'll go?
buffy: home.
scene change: cut to the beach. the camera pans over the waves rolling in. the three monsters are in the surf and begin to swim out to sea 