scene direction: the library at sunnydale high school. buffy is crouched over kendra after finding her dead. behind her a police officer comes in and aims his gun at her.
officer#1: freeze!
scene direction: officer#1 buffy faces him
officer#1: put your hands up. back away from the girl slowly.
scene direction: another officer comes in behind the first, gun drawn and surveying the scene. buffy slowly gets to her feet and raises her hands.
buffy: look, i didn't do anything.
officer#1: do it! now!
scene direction: the second officer holsters her gun and crouches down to feel for kendra's pulse, but can't find one.
officer#2: this one's dead.
officer#1: what about up there?
scene direction: officer#1 nods toward the mezzanine
scene direction: buffy and officer#2 look up at the stacks and see xander lying unconscious on the floor behind the railing.
buffy: xander...
scene direction: she starts to go to him, but officer#2 grabs her and pushes her back.
officer#2: get her out of here!
buffy: wait! just see if he's okay! please!
scene direction: the second officer hands her off to the first, and then goes to check on xander. buffy offers no resistance, and lets herself be led out.
scene direction: officer#2 crouches down by xander to check him out.
scene change: cut to the hall outside the library. officer#1 leads buffy out.
buffy: please. you don't understand.
officer#1: you'd do well to keep your mouth shut, missy.
scene direction: they turn down the hall and see snyder coming down followed by two more officers.
buffy: but i didn't *do* anything.
snyder: why do i find that so very hard to believe?
scene direction: officer#1 to the other officers
officer#1: in there.
scene direction: officer#1 to snyder
officer#1: you know this girl?
snyder: buffy summers. if there's trouble, she's behind it.
scene direction: buffy angrily
buffy: you stupid little troll. you have *no* idea!
snyder: attitude problem. serious.
scene direction: buffy faces the officer
buffy: look, i just wanna know if my friends are okay.
officer#1: all right, that's enough.
scene direction: he spins her back around and gets out his handcuffs.
officer#1: you have the right to remain silent. anything you say can and...
scene direction: buffy glances over her shoulder, and without warning backhand punches the officer in the face. he grunts in pain and stumbles backward into the lockers. she grabs him by the neck and pushes his head down, flipping him over onto his back. snyder takes a shocked step back. he is too stunned by what he just saw her do to move, and just lets her run down the hall without even looking. officer#2 comes out of the library and sees her partner on the floor and buffy running away. she raises her gun and takes aim at buffy.
officer#2: stop!
scene direction: now snyder turns around to see buffy running away, but he's still too shook up to have the sense to get out of the officer's way.
officer#2: get down!
scene direction: buffy looks back and turns down an adjacent hall, and the officer takes a shot. the bullet shatters the window of the hall door. the other two officers come out of the library, guns drawn and ready, and she waves them in buffy's direction. they run in pursuit. she grabs the radio mic at her shoulder and puts out a bulletin on buffy.
officer#2: all units, we have a fugitive on foot at the high school.
scene direction: homicide suspect. female, blond, approximately sixteen years old.
scene direction: suspect is *very* dangerous.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: the hall outside the emergency room at sunnydale general hospital. buffy comes into the hall wearing a wool cap and a long, dark coat. she averts her eyes from the doctors and nurses. on the wall she finds a slot with a few patient histories and checks the names on them. there are none she's interested in. she continues slowly down the hall, avoiding the eyes of a passing doctor. she checks another series of slots for names on paperwork, but finds nothing. further down the hall she turns down the left passageway. behinds her xander walks up and touches her on the back. she gasps and spins around, but is very relieved to see him standing there.
buffy: xander!
scene direction: buffy hugs him tightly
buffy: ohhh...
scene direction: he hugs her back, and they hold each other for a long moment, then buffy lets go.
buffy: i was so worried, i didn't know if you were okay. the cops were...
xander: yeah, i, i heard them chase you out. i was just coming out of it.
scene direction: xander holds up his arm in a cast
xander: souvenir.
buffy: well, what about the others?
scene direction: xander sees two police officers come into the hall behind her.
buffy: are they okay?
scene direction: he grabs her in another tight hug. buffy goes along with it, but wonders what's up. when she glimpses the cops she hides her face in xander's shoulder while they head down the hall in the direction that she came in. when the police have gone they separate again.
buffy: okay. that was about equal parts protecting me and copping a feel, right?
scene direction: buffy smiles
scene direction: xander doesn't smile back. he turns his face down looking sad and very worried.
buffy: what is it?
scene change: cut to willow lying unconscious in a hospital bed. she has a bandaged cut on her forehead and a black eye, but otherwise seems unhurt. the camera pans up from her face to buffy and xander standing next to the bed.
xander: the doctor said it was head trauma. she can wake up at any time, but, um... the longer it lasts, the... less likely it is.
buffy: i never should've let her try to do that curse. angel must've known.
scene direction: she reaches up to willow's face and brushes back a few stray hairs.
buffy: where are her parents?
xander: with relatives in phoenix. i gave them a call. they're...
scene direction: they're getting on a plane back.
buffy: does oz know?
scene direction: xander realizes his omission
xander: oh, man. um... i didn't even think.
scene direction: um... i'll call him.
scene direction: buffy hears some footsteps behind her and turns quickly to see who it is. xander looks over his shoulder, too, and they see cordelia come in.
scene direction: he goes over to her.
xander: hey.
scene direction: cordelia whispers
cordelia: hey.
scene direction: they kiss and hold each other close.
scene direction: cordelia sighs
cordelia: how is she?
scene direction: cordelia they separate and look at willow
cordelia: the doctor told me that...
xander: yeah. we're, uh... still waiting.
buffy: you okay?
cordelia: i ran. i think i made it through three counties before i realized nobody was chasing me. not too brave.
buffy: it was the right thing to do.
xander: did giles keep up with you?
cordelia: i didn't see giles.
buffy: you mean he's not in the hospital?
xander: no.
scene direction: buffy gives them a very concerned stare.
scene change: cut to angelus' mansion. giles is lying on the floor. angelus lies on the floor facing him and waiting for him to regain consciousness.
giles: mm...
scene direction: giles stirs a bit and exhales
giles: ohhh...
scene direction: giles lifts his head
angelus: hi, rupert. i wasn't sure you were gonna wake up. you had me worried.
scene direction: angelus hops to his feet
scene direction: giles standing up slowly
giles: what do you want?
angelus: i wanna torture you. i used to love it, and it's been a *long* time. i mean, the last time i tortured somebody, they didn't even *have*
scene direction: chainsaws.
scene direction: he strolls past giles over to acathla. giles turns to watch him and sees the stone demon with the sword protruding from its chest. angelus notices giles' stare.
angelus: oh, yeah. acathla. he's an even harder guy to wake up than you are. i mean, i performed the rituals, said all the right phrases... blood on my hand. got nothing. big doughnut hole for my troubles. i figure you know the ritual. you're pretty up on these things. you could probably... tell me what i'm doing wrong.
scene direction: angelus approaches giles
angelus: but honestly, i sorta hope you don't...
scene direction: angelus stops in front of him
angelus: 'cause i *really* wanna torture you.
scene direction: angelus stares evilly
scene change: cut to the summers house. a police officer comes down the stairs to where detective stein is questioning joyce and goes to stand next to him.
joyce: no. i-i-it's impossible. there... there's been some terrible mistake.
det. stein: and you have no idea where your daughter is.
joyce: she said she was going to her friend willow's house.
scene direction: joyce shakes her head
joyce: maybe she slept over.
det. stein: is that willow rosenberg?
joyce: yes.
scene direction: det. stein to the officer
det. stein: second victim.
scene direction: joyce confused
joyce: what?
det. stein: your daughter has a history of violence. doesn't she, ms.
scene direction: summers?
scene direction: he nods for the officer to leave the house, and he goes.
joyce: well...
scene direction: det. stein smugly
det. stein: you call us.
scene direction: det. stein pulls out his wallet
det. stein: okay?
scene direction: det. stein digs out a card
det. stein: if she decides to stop by.
scene direction: det. stein hands joyce the card
det. stein: be best if she just comes in.
scene direction: he exits the house leaving joyce very worried and confused.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. the door is ajar, so buffy just comes right in.
buffy: giles! giles!
scene direction: she looks around, but doesn't see him. behind her whistler comes down the stairs from the loft.
whistler: i don't think he's here.
scene direction: buffy pivots around to face him
buffy: who are you?
whistler: whistler.
buffy: what are you doing here?
scene direction: whistler reaches the base of the stairs
whistler: i'm waiting for you.
buffy: why?
whistler: 'cause i-i-i need a date to the prom.
scene direction: buffy is *not* in the mood for jokes right now, so she takes the two steps over to him, grabs him by the throat and shoves him up against the wall.
buffy: i have had a *really* bad day, okay? if you have information worth hearing, then i am grateful for it. if you're gonna crack jokes, then i'm gonna pull out your ribcage and wear it as a hat.
scene direction: buffy lets go
whistler: hello to the imagery! very nice.
scene direction: whistler seriously
whistler: it wasn't supposed to go down like this.
scene direction: whistler moves away from the wall
whistler: nobody saw you coming. i figured this for angel's big day. but i thought he was here to *stop* acathla, not to bring him forth. then you two made with the smoochies... now he's a creep again. now, what are you gonna do? w-what are you prepared to do?
buffy: whatever i have to.
whistler: maybe i should ask, what are you prepared to give up?
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: you don't have anything useful to tell me, do you?
scene direction: what are you, just some immortal demon sent down to even the score between good and evil?
scene direction: whistler impressed
whistler: wow. good guess.
scene direction: whistler grins
scene direction: buffy steps up to him
buffy: well, why don't you try getting off your immortal ass and fighting evil once in a while? 'cause i'm sick and tired of doing it myself.
whistler: in the end, you're always by yourself. you're all you've got.
scene direction: that's the point.
scene direction: buffy disgusted
buffy: spare me.
scene direction: buffy starts to leave
whistler: the sword isn't enough. you gotta be ready.
scene direction: whistler raises his voice
whistler: you gotta know how to use it!
scene direction: she goes out the door and slams it behind her.
scene change: cut to the park. buffy walks through it with her head down. a car drives by. she steps into the street and watches as the car goes. when she turns back she sees a police car coming, but doesn't run, instead hoping that the officer won't notice her. he does, though, and turns on his lightbar and lets the siren give a brief loud tone. he pulls the car aside, stops and gets out. buffy ignores him and keeps walking right past the front of the vehicle. the officer draws his gun.
officer#3: hold right there!
scene direction: officer#3 slams his door
scene direction: buffy spins around to face him.
officer#3: put your hands on your head! do it!
scene direction: she stares at his gun, frightened, and begins to raise her hands.
scene direction: suddenly the gun gets kicked out of the officer's hands. he gets kicked in the face and in the shin, then grabbed and thrown onto the hood of his car, where he lies unconscious. his attacker faces a surprised buffy.
spike: hello, cutie.
scene direction: spike smiles
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: in the park. spike takes a step toward buffy, and she immediately decks him twice in the face. he grabs her by the shoulders to restrain her, but she brings her knee up into his gut.
spike: now, you hold on a second!
scene direction: he gives her a good shove away from himself. she reaches into her coat and pulls out a stake. spike jumps back and holds up his hands in surrender.
spike: hey! white flag here. i quit.
buffy: let me clear this up for you. we're mortal enemies. we don't get time-outs.
spike: you want to go around, pet, i'll have a gay old time of it. you want to stop angel... we're gonna have to play this a bit differently.
scene direction: buffy still holding the stake
buffy: what are you talking about?
spike: i'm talking about your ex, pet. i'm talking about putting him in the bloody ground.
scene direction: buffy chuckles
buffy: this has gotta be the *lamest* trick
scene direction: buffy lowers her stake
buffy: you guys have ever thought up.
spike: he's got your watcher. right now, he's probably torturing him.
buffy: what do you want?
spike: i told you. i want to stop angel.
scene direction: spike snickers
spike: i want to save the world.
buffy: okay. you do remember that you're a vampire, right?
spike: we like to talk big.
scene direction: spike indicates himself
spike: vampires do. 'i'm going to destroy the world.'
scene direction: spike looks at the officer
spike: that's just tough guy talk.
scene direction: spike steps over to the car
spike: strutting around with your friends over a pint of blood.
scene direction: spike sits on the hood
spike: the truth is, i like this world.
scene direction: spike pulls the cigarette pack from the officer's shirt pocket
spike: you've got...
scene direction: dog racing, manchester united. (pulls one out and drops the pack on the officer) and you've got people. (exhales) billions of people walking around like happy meals with legs. it's all right here. (lights the cigarette and takes a drag) but then someone comes along with a vision.
scene direction: with a real... (exhales) passion for destruction. (takes another drag and looks at buffy) angel could pull it off. goodbye, piccadilly.
scene direction: farewell, leicester bloody square. you know what i'm saying?
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: okay, fine. you're not down with angel. why would you ever come to me?
scene direction: spike stands and takes another drag, but doesn't look at her
spike: i want dru back. i want it like it was before he came back. the way she acts around him...
buffy: you're pathetic.
scene direction: he punches her in the face. she punches him right back.
buffy: i lost a friend tonight!
spike: i wasn't in on that raiding party.
buffy: and i may lose more! the whole earth may be sucked into hell, and you want my help 'cause your girlfriend's a big ho? well, let me take this opportunity to *not* care.
spike: i can't fight them both alone, and neither can you!
scene direction: buffy punches him hard in the jaw, making him flinch. he straightens back up and feels his jaw, checking for blood.
buffy: i hate you.
spike: and i'm all you've got.
scene direction: the police officer begins to stir on the hood of the car.
scene direction: buffy looks down briefly
buffy: all right. talk.
scene direction: spike turns to the officer
spike: i'm just gonna kill this guy.
scene direction: buffy clears her throat loudly. spike faces her.
spike: oh, right.
scene direction: buffy raises her eyebrows at him
buffy: let's get inside.
scene direction: they leave as the police officer begins to wake up and feel his head.
scene change: cut to willow's room at the hospital. she is still unconscious. xander is sitting in a chair and watching her while cordelia stands.
cordelia: do you want some coffee?
xander: i don't wanna leave. she might, uh...
cordelia: i'll get it.
scene direction: xander looks up at her
xander: thanks.
scene direction: they clasp hands briefly, and cordelia goes to get some coffee. xander looks at willow again, deep in thought. he leans over to the bed and gently takes her hand in his.
xander: come on, will. look, you don't have a choice here. you gotta wake up. i need you, will. i mean, how am i gonna pass trig, you know?
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: and who am i gonna call every night... and talk about everything we did all day? you're my best friend. you've always...
scene direction: he looks at her for a long moment, looks away for an instant and then at her again, struggling with his emotions.
xander: i love you.
scene direction: her face twitches and her hand gives his a squeeze. xander's eyes widen in hope.
xander: willow?
scene direction: she takes a few breaths before responding, with her eyes still closed.
scene direction: willow whispers
willow: oz?
scene direction: willow speaks
willow: oz?
scene direction: xander leans away, taken aback. oz hears her as he walks into the room.
oz: i'm here.
scene direction: xander looks back at oz
xander: she's just starting to wake up.
scene direction: he gets up to let oz go to her. oz takes her hand and leans over the bed. willow still has her eyes closed.
oz: hey, baby.
scene direction: willow weakly
willow: hi.
xander: i'm gonna go get a doctor.
scene direction: xander leaves
oz: how you feelin'?
scene direction: willow weakly, eyes still closed
willow: my head... feels big. is it big?
oz: no. it's head size.
scene direction: he leans over her face and gently kisses her on the forehead. he leans back to look at her and strokes her hair with his other hand. she opens her eyes tentatively.
scene direction: willow whispers
willow: uh... is everybody else okay?
scene change: cut to angelus' mansion. the camera shows giles in a chair with his hands bound behind his back and bleeding from rope burns. the camera pans up his arms and over his shoulder to angelus, sitting in a chair and watching giles as he cleans his glasses. he breathes on the lenses, polishes them clean and inspects his work.
angelus: rupert, buddy... i'm here to tell you, i'm impressed.
scene direction: angelus chuckles
scene direction: he drops the cleaning cloth, gets up and goes over to giles.
angelus: hey. uh...
scene direction: angelus slides on the glasses
angelus: how you holdin' up?
scene direction: giles looks up at him weakly
giles: never... better.
angelus: glad to hear it.
scene direction: angelus kneels next to him
angelus: now...
scene direction: angelus giles breathes painfully
angelus: tell me when it hurts.
scene direction: angelus smirks
scene change: cut to buffy's street. she and spike eye each other as they head up the walk to her house. just then joyce pulls up in her jeep and sees them from her open window.
joyce: buffy?!
scene direction: buffy gives her a glance, but goes right back to watching spike.
scene direction: joyce stops the car
joyce: where have you been?
scene direction: joyce gets out
joyce: are you okay?
scene direction: joyce runs over
joyce: the police were here! i've been looking for you!
buffy: mom, let's, let's go inside, and i can explain.
scene direction: joyce hysterical
joyce: who is this man?
scene direction: joyce to spike
joyce: who are you?
scene direction: joyce to buffy
joyce: are you okay?
buffy: mom! i'm-i'm okay.
joyce: buffy, terrible things have happened. what were you doing?
spike: what, your mum doesn't know?
scene direction: buffy glares at spike.
scene direction: joyce to spike
joyce: know what?
scene direction: buffy faces her mom
buffy: that i'm, uh... in a band. a-a rock band with spike here.
scene direction: buffy shoots spike a look
spike: right. she plays the, the triangle.
buffy: drums.
spike: drums, yeah. she's, uh, hell on the old skins, you know.
scene direction: joyce unconvinced
joyce: hmm. and, uh, what do you do?
spike: well, i sing.
buffy: you know what? why don't we go inside, and, and we can talk about this.
scene direction: buffy nods
scene direction: she starts toward the door, and spike follows.
joyce: i'm, i'm not sure how i feel about this.
scene direction: buffy turns around to face her. suddenly a vampire rushes across the porch, pushes buffy and spike aside and jumps down the steps at joyce, ready to fight. she screams and does some fast backpedaling. buffy grabs him by the shoulders from behind and forces him around to face spike.
scene direction: she pulls out a stake while spike gives him a series of punches to the face. spike's last blow sends the vampire spinning around and staggering away. buffy thrusts the stake into his chest, and he instantly crumbles to ash. joyce just stares in shock. spike steps down from the porch and looks at the pile of ash.
spike: one of angel's boys.
buffy: yeah, probably watching me. or you.
spike: yeah. he won't get a chance to tattle on us now.
scene direction: joyce utterly confused
joyce: buffy... what... is going on?
scene direction: buffy looks at her mother for a moment, exchanges a look with spike and realizes that it's time. she steps up to her mom and looks up at her, hoping against hope for understanding.
buffy: mom... i'm a vampire slayer.
scene direction: joyce just blinks her eyes, raises her brows and shakes her head in complete dismay.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: willow's room at the hospital. oz brings her a bowl of jell-o. she's sitting up and on the phone with buffy. she takes the bowl from oz with a smile, sets it down on her lap and begins to play with the spoon. oz pulls up a chair and sits down.
willow: i'm okay, buffy, really. i mean, i don't feel good, but... i'm awake, and i know my name and who's president and how many fingers, so they don't think my brain got mushed at all.
scene direction: buffy cut to her in her kitchen
buffy: thank god. so sorry i can't be there.
willow: i know.
scene direction: willow cut to her
willow: i'm sorry i didn't get to cure angel.
buffy: don't be. it just
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: wasn't meant to be. i know i'm never gonna get him back the way he was. it just makes it easier.
scene direction: willow cut to her
willow: i guess. any luck finding giles?
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: yep. i got a lucky break.
willow: what?
buffy: you wouldn't believe me if i told you.
scene change: cut to their living room. joyce sits nervously on the couch with the toes of her shoes turned in. spike is sitting in an adjacent wicker chair. uncomfortable silence reigns. spike looks around the room. joyce lifts her glass, takes a sip of her drink and winces at its strength.
scene change: spike looks down at his lap, lets out a long, bored breath and folds his hands. cut to buffy on the phone in the kitchen.
buffy: xander. angel and the others are holed up outside town. you remember that funky-looking mansion you showed me that time?
scene change: cut to him sitting on willow's bed. behind him she eats her jell-o. oz looks through a magazine.
scene direction: xander into the phone
xander: on crawford street. sure. that makes sense.
scene direction: what's the drill?
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: i'm gonna hit it come daybreak.
scene direction: xander cut to him
xander: you'll need backup.
buffy: no.
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: you stay there. i'm covered.
scene direction: xander cut to him
xander: do you, um... do you think giles is still alive?
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: i think he is. i just wish he was here to tell me what to do.
scene change: cut to the living room. the silence is deafening. spike looks around some more. then joyce has a spark of recognition on her face and looks over at spike.
joyce: have we met?
scene direction: spike faces her
spike: um... you hit me with an ax one time. remember?
scene direction: spike makes an ax-holding gesture
spike: uh, 'get the hell away from my daughter.'
scene direction: spike lowers his arms
joyce: oh.
scene direction: she lets out a little chuckle. spike sighs with boredom.
joyce: so, do you, uh, live here in town?
scene direction: buffy walks into the room with her arms crossed. they both get up.
joyce: i-is willow all right?
buffy: yeah. she's fine.
scene direction: buffy to spike
buffy: all right, talk. what's the deal?
spike: simple. you let me and dru skip town, i help you kill angel.
scene direction: joyce confused
joyce: angel? your boyfriend?
scene direction: buffy to spike
buffy: forget about drusilla. she doesn't walk.
spike: there's no deal without dru.
buffy: she killed kendra.
scene direction: spike surprised
spike: dru bagged a slayer?
scene direction: spike chuckles
spike: she didn't tell me!
scene direction: spike to joyce, smiling
spike: hey, good for her!
scene direction: spike gets a look from buffy and loses the smile
spike: though not from your perspective, i suppose.
scene direction: buffy with contempt
buffy: i can't believe i invited you into my house.
scene direction: joyce relieved
joyce: so you didn't kill that girl.
buffy: of course not.
joyce: did she explode like that man out there?
buffy: she was a slayer, mom.
joyce: like what you are.
scene direction: buffy gives her a thin smile and a nod.
spike: look.
scene direction: spike pulls buffy aside
spike: this deal works for me one way. full stop. me and dru for angel.
scene direction: joyce still confused
joyce: honey, a-are you sure you're a vampire slayer?
spike: i'll take her out of the country. you'll never hear from us again, i *bloody* well hope.
scene direction: buffy ignores her mother
buffy: fine. get back to the mansion. make sure giles is all right.
joyce: i-i mean, have you tried *not* being a slayer?
scene direction: they both look at her.
buffy: mom!
scene direction: spike sighs in exasperation of joyce.
scene direction: buffy to spike
buffy: be ready to back me up when i make my move.
scene direction: he walks around her toward the door.
buffy: if giles dies...
scene direction: buffy spike stops and faces her
buffy: she dies.
scene direction: he gives her a final stare and heads out the door.
scene direction: joyce trying to make sense of it
joyce: it's because you didn't have a strong father figure, isn't it?
buffy: it's just fate, mom. i'm the slayer. accept it.
joyce: we should call the police.
scene direction: joyce heads for the kitchen
buffy: no. we're not calling the police.
scene direction: joyce stops and faces her daughter, smiling
joyce: well, now that we know that you're innocent, it's...
buffy: what? you thought i was guilty? jeez, feelin' the love in *this*
scene direction: room!
joyce: no, i didn't think that. it's just... now we have proof.
scene direction: buffy exasperated
buffy: we have my word, mom. not proof.
scene direction: joyce heads for the kitchen again
joyce: look, i am sure that they will understand.
scene direction: buffy follows closely
buffy: get them involved, you'll get them killed.
joyce: well, you're not gonna hurt them, are you?
buffy: i'm a slayer, not a postal worker.
scene direction: her mother picks up the phone, and buffy slaps her hand onto the switch hook.
buffy: cops can't fight demons.
scene direction: buffy takes the phone from her mom
buffy: i have to do it.
scene direction: buffy puts the phone back in its cradle
scene direction: joyce demanding
joyce: do what? buffy, what is happening?
scene direction: buffy doesn't want to deal
buffy: just have another drink.
scene direction: she turns away from her mother and starts to walk off. joyce throws her glass aside in anger, and it breaks on the floor.
joyce: don't you talk to me that way!
scene direction: joyce buffy stops in her tracks
joyce: you don't get to just dump something like this on me and pretend it's nothing!
scene direction: buffy looks at her
buffy: i'm sorry, mom, but i don't have time for this.
scene direction: buffy starts for the door again, but stops
joyce: no! i am tired of 'i don't have time' or-or 'you wouldn't understand.'
scene direction: joyce buffy faces her
joyce: i am your mother, and you will *make*
scene direction: time to explain yourself.
buffy: i told you. i'm a vampire slayer.
scene direction: joyce haughtily
joyce: well, i just don't accept that!
scene direction: buffy steps closer
buffy: open your eyes, mom. what do you think has been going on for the past two years? the fights, the weird occurrences. how many times have you washed blood out of my clothing, and you still haven't figured it out?
scene direction: joyce raises her voice angrily
joyce: well, it stops now!
scene direction: buffy raises her voice also
buffy: no, it doesn't stop! it *never* stops! do-do you think i chose to be like this? do you have any idea how lonely it is, how dangerous? i would *love* to be upstairs watching tv or gossiping about boys or... god, even studying! but i have to save the world... again.
joyce: no. this is insane.
scene direction: joyce takes buffy by the shoulders
joyce: buffy, you need help.
scene direction: buffy throws off her mom's arms
buffy: i'm *not* crazy! what i need is for you to chill. i *have* to go!
scene direction: joyce shakes her head
joyce: no. i am not letting you out of this house.
buffy: you can't stop me.
scene direction: joyce grabs her
joyce: oh yes i...
scene direction: buffy shoves her back into the island, making her knock over several things. she heads for the door, opens it and steps out.
scene direction: joyce angrily
joyce: you walk out of this house, don't even *think* about coming back!
scene direction: buffy just gives her a long stare and leaves. joyce sighs, having failed once again at communicating with her daughter. she turns around and leans on the island with her head in her hands.
scene change: cut to willow's hospital room. willow is sitting up in her bed with oz in the chair next to her. xander is sitting on the far side of the room.
scene direction: cordelia paces
cordelia: so buffy's going for the big showdown, huh? wish we could help.
scene direction: cordelia to xander
cordelia: you know, without dying.
xander: i don't see how.
willow: i wanna try again.
oz: try what?
willow: the curse. we never got to finish it. maybe we *can* restore angel's soul.
xander: i don't like it. you're talking about messing with powerful magic, and you're weak.
willow: i'm okay.
xander: you don't look okay.
scene direction: xander to cordelia
xander: does she?
cordelia: you should listen to him. the hair, it's so flat, and the lips...
scene direction: xander to cordelia
xander: could we stay on topic here, honey?
cordelia: what?
scene direction: xander to willow
xander: look, it's not a good idea.
willow: there's no use arguing with me. do you see my resolve face?
scene direction: willow gives them her resolve face
willow: you've seen it before. you know what it means. this can help buffy. if we turn angel back soon enough, we can stop him from ever awakening acathla.
scene direction: oz gets up
oz: okay, i pretty much missed out on some stuff, didn't i?
scene direction: because this is all making a kind of sense that's... not.
scene direction: willow to oz
willow: go with cordy to the library and get my things. she'll fill you in.
oz: sure.
scene direction: oz kisses her hand
oz: i'll drive.
scene direction: he walks out of the room with cordelia close behind. xander gets up.
willow: xander, go to buffy. tell her what we're doing. maybe she can stall.
xander: but i...
scene direction: willow points to herself
willow: resolve face.
scene direction: xander gives in
xander: be careful.
scene direction: xander leaves
scene change: cut to angelus' mansion. giles is still tied to his chair, and hangs his head weakly.
angelus: you know, i can stop the pain. you've been very brave...
scene direction: angelus puts his hand on giles' shoulder
angelus: but it's over.
scene direction: angelus walks behind him
angelus: you've given enough.
scene direction: angelus leans down to giles' ear
angelus: now let me make it stop.
scene direction: giles panting and shaking with pain
giles: please!
scene direction: angelus kneels to face him
angelus: just tell me what i need to know.
scene direction: giles weakly
giles: in order... to be worthy...
scene direction: angelus whispers
angelus: yeah?
scene direction: giles weakly
giles: you must perform the ritual... in a tutu.
scene direction: angelus glares at him. giles doesn't back down.
giles: pillock!
scene direction: angelus stands up
angelus: all right. someone get the chainsaw.
scene direction: spike wheels himself in
spike: now, now, don't let's lose our temper.
angelus: keep out of it, sit 'n' spin.
spike: look, you cut him up, you'll never get your answers.
angelus: since when did *you* become so levelheaded?
spike: right about the time you became so pig-headed. you have your way with him, you'll never get to destroy the world. and i don't fancy spending the next month trying to get librarian out of the carpet. there are other ways.
angelus: enlighten me.
spike: hmm.
scene direction: spike behind himself
spike: drusilla? sweetheart?
scene direction: she comes in behind him and walks up to them.
spike: do you want to play a game?
scene direction: she puts her arm on his shoulder, and they both look over at angelus.
scene change: cut to the library. the main area is cordoned off with yellow crime scene tape. buffy walks in and just grabs and pulls down the tape. as she heads toward the table she looks down at the chalk outline of kendra on the floor and passes it slowly, careful not to step on it. when she reaches the table she looks for a moment at the orb, candles and other things that were used in the attempt at cursing angelus. then she reaches under the table, pulls out kendra's large duffel bag and sets it on the table. as she goes through it snyder comes into the library.
snyder: you do know this is a crime scene, don't you?
scene direction: snyder buffy looks up at him approaching
snyder: but then... you're a criminal, so that pretty much works out.
scene direction: snyder stops
buffy: you know i didn't do it. the police will figure it out.
snyder: in case you haven't noticed, the police of sunnydale are *deeply* stupid.
scene direction: snyder takes a few steps closer
snyder: it doesn't matter anyway. whatever they find, you've proved too much of a liability for this school.
scene direction: snyder takes a breath
snyder: these are the moments you want to savor. you wish time would stop so that you could live them over and over again.
scene direction: (smiles smugly) you're expelled.
scene direction: buffy reaches into the bag and pulls out the sword blessed by the knight who first slew acathla. she holds it up and turns it in her hand. snyder looks at it, at her and gulps. buffy gazes at the polished blade.
buffy: you never ever got a single date in high school,
scene direction: buffy turns her eyes to him
buffy: did you?
snyder: your point being?
scene direction: she starts out of the library and leans the blade into his face as she passes him. he bends back nervously and watches her go. this time she makes no attempt to avoid the chalk markings on the floor. snyder pulls out his cell phone and dials. he checks to make sure she's gone and holds the phone up to his ear.
snyder: it's snyder.
scene direction: snyder smiles
snyder: tell the mayor i have good news.
scene change: cut to angelus' mansion. drusilla kneels behind giles, patting the sweat from his forehead.
drusilla: is that better?
scene direction: drusilla pats more
drusilla: hmm?
scene direction: drusilla pulls away the cloth
drusilla: poor thing.
scene direction: drusilla runs her finger down his cheek
drusilla: let's see what's inside.
scene direction: she runs her hand up the back of giles' head and over the top. she closes her eyes and concentrates on reading his thoughts. it doesn't take long for her to discover something useful. she gasps and removes her hand.
scene direction: drusilla into giles' ear
drusilla: of course.
scene direction: she stands up and goes around to his other side and holds up two fingers to hypnotize him.
drusilla: look at me.
scene direction: giles turns his head weakly to look away, trying to resist. she comes around the rest of the way in front of him, waving her fingers.
drusilla: mm-mm-mm-mm.
scene direction: finally giles can no longer resist and looks at her. she waves her fingers around some more and draws them in toward her own eyes.
drusilla: be... in me.
scene direction: in his weakened state giles quickly falls under her spell. she looks into his eyes and smiles.
drusilla: hmm. see with your heart.
scene direction: she covers his eyes with her hand, and when she takes it away he sees jenny kneeling before him. at first he can't believe it, but then accepts it.
scene direction: giles smiles
giles: jenny! i thought i'd lost you.
scene direction: dru [jenny] quietly
dru [jenny]: shh. i'll never leave you.
scene direction: giles tries to get up
giles: we have to get out of here.
scene direction: dru [jenny] calms him
dru [jenny]: no-no-no-no-no. slowly.
scene direction: she brushes her hand over his temple, down his cheek and over his lips.
giles: it can't be you.
scene direction: giles stares into her eyes
dru [jenny]: did you tell angel? about the ritual?
scene direction: giles breathing erratically
giles: no.
scene direction: giles desperately
giles: we have to get... him away from acathla.
dru [jenny]: why? is he close to figuring it out?
scene direction: giles nods, anxious to go
giles: later.
scene direction: dru [jenny] imploringly
dru [jenny]: tell me what to do.
scene direction: giles looks at her, helpless and confused.
dru [jenny]: it's all right. we'll be together... finally. we'll have everything we never got to have... never got to feel... just tell me what to do.
scene direction: giles desperately
giles: we have to get angel away from acathla.
dru [jenny]: angel himself? he's the key?
scene direction: giles weakly
giles: h-h-his, his blood... h-he mustn't...
dru [jenny]: shh.
scene direction: dru [jenny] kisses him
dru [jenny]: mm.
scene direction: they kiss passionately. the camera pulls over to giles' face. when it pans back he's kissing drusilla. the camera continues to pan over to angelus and spike as they watch, pleased with the result.
angelus: blood. of course. the blood on my hands must be my own. i am the key that will open up the door. my blood. my life.
scene direction: angelus considers
angelus: okay.
scene direction: kill him. (turns to go)
spike: uh, but what if he's lying?
angelus: yeah. good point. alright, don't kill him.
scene direction: angelus leans down to spike
angelus: you know, i kinda like having you watch my back. it's kinda like old times.
scene direction: angelus chuckles
scene direction: they both look over at drusilla, still kissing giles.
spike: uh, drusilla...
scene direction: she keeps kissing him.
angelus: honey...
spike: we are finished here, ducks.
scene direction: she stops and looks back at them sheepishly.
drusilla: sorry.
scene direction: drusilla smiles evilly
drusilla: i was in the moment.
scene direction: giles opens his eyes and realizes that he's been tricked.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. whistler walks into the kitchen and looks around. he spots a bottle of sherry and takes a sniff, but then sees that it's empty. he puts it back down and keeps looking around. buffy comes in and sees him there. he goes over to check out the refrigerator.
buffy: whistler. what did you mean, the sword isn't enough?
scene direction: whistler finds a bottle of beer
whistler: you know, raiding an englishman's fridge is like dating a nun. you're never gonna get the good stuff.
buffy: tell me how to use it.
scene direction: whistler takes a swig and looks back at buffy
whistler: angel's the key.
scene direction: whistler closes the fridge
whistler: his blood will open the door to hell. acathla opens his big mouth, creates a vortex. then only angel's blood will close it.
scene direction: one blow will send 'em both back to hell. but i strongly suggest that you get there before that happens, 'cause the faster you kill angel, the easier it's gonna be on you.
buffy: don't worry about me.
whistler: it's all on the line here, kid.
buffy: i can deal.
scene direction: buffy sadly
buffy: i got nothing left to lose.
scene direction: buffy leaves
whistler: wrong, kid. you got one more thing.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene change: outside angelus' mansion. the camera pans along its dark facade. cut to the street. buffy walks toward the mansion at a determined pace with the sword wrapped in a cloth. suddenly xander comes running out of the bushes on the hillside and jumps into the street in front of her. she startles and takes a reflexive step back.
buffy: xander!
xander: cavalry's here. cavalry's a frightened guy with a rock,
scene direction: xander holds up a large rock
xander: but it's here.
scene direction: buffy holds up a stake. he tosses the rock aside and takes it from her.
xander: that's better.
buffy: you're not here to fight.
scene direction: buffy starts walking
buffy: you get giles out, and you run like hell, understood? i can't protect you.
scene direction: buffy pulls off and discards the cloth
buffy: i'm gonna be too busy killing.
scene direction: xander looks at the sword
xander: now, that's a new look for you.
buffy: it's a present for angel.
xander: willow.
scene direction: xander stops
xander: uh, she told me to tell you...
buffy: tell me what?
scene direction: xander pauses to think
xander: kick his ass.
scene direction: without a word she continues walking. xander hesitates a moment and then follows.
scene direction: cut inside the main hall of the mansion. spike in his wheelchair, angelus and drusilla stand at one end near the large fireplace. the camera pans along the other side behind acathla and the two other vampires standing on either side. angelus begins the ritual.
angelus: acathla... mundatus sum... pro te necavi. sanguinem meum...
scene direction: pro te effundam... (steps slowly toward acathla) quo me dignum... esse demonstrem.
translation: acathla... i am cleansed... here before you. my blood...
scene direction: flowing before you... (steps slowly toward acathla) makes me worthy...
scene direction: as i demonstrate.
scene change: cut to willow's hospital room. cordelia and oz are back with the orb and the candles, and they have everything set up on the tray table over the bed - the orb surrounded by the candles within a sacred circle. cordelia stands on one side and waves burning herbs and incense over the orb. oz stands on the other side with an open latin book. willow sits up in her bed holding the printout of the rumanian curse. the camera looks down from above and closes in on them.
willow: are we ready?
cordelia: stinky herbs are a go.
oz: did i mention i didn't take latin?
willow: y-you don't have to understand it. you just have to say it. i hope.
oz: right.
scene change: cut to angelus' mansion. the camera pans past acathla's face and the vampire standing next to him.
angelus: now, acathla...
scene change: cut to angelus. drusilla hands him a knife.
angelus: you will be free.
scene direction: he draws the blade across the palm of his hand and winces in pain, but doesn't take his stare off of the demon. he drops the knife.
angelus: and so will we all.
scene change: cut to the other vampire. the camera pans around him to show buffy coming in quietly behind him. she raises her sword and decapitates him with a single swing. he crumbles to ash as his head falls to the floor.
scene direction: drusilla and angelus turn their heads to look. buffy meets their gazes.
buffy: hello, lover.
scene direction: angelus bored
angelus: i don't have time for you.
buffy: you don't have a lot of time *left*.
angelus: coming on kind of strong, don't you think? you're playing some deep odds here. do you really think you can take us all on?
buffy: no. i don't.
scene direction: spike gets up out of his wheelchair behind angelus with a determined look on his face and whips him hard across the back with an andiron.
scene direction: angelus cries out in pain and collapses to the floor. drusilla twists her head to look at spike. he continues to whale on angelus as hard as he can. buffy starts for drusilla, but the first vampire attacks her.
scene direction: she spins around to face him, but he punches her and she falls to the floor. she trips him when he comes at her again and maneuvers to her feet, ready to fight. he comes at her again with a series of punches, all of which she easily blocks. spike keeps pounding on angelus.
spike: painful, isn't it?
scene direction: he keeps swinging the andiron. drusilla begins to freak, and jumps on spike, taking him down to the floor with her. buffy's assailant backhand punches her in the face, and she goes staggering into a chair by the wall. she quickly recovers to block another swing, brings her knee up into his gut and kicks him in the face, knocking him to the floor. she spies a pile of broken wood fragments and goes to it. the vampire gets to his feet just as xander comes into the room and surprises him with a punch. buffy picks up a suitable piece of scrap wood and gets back into the fight. xander backs off to go look for giles. the vampire ducks a roundhouse kick and blocks another kick. spike and drusilla get up from the floor and face each other off.
spike: i don't want to hurt you, baby.
scene direction: she grabs him by the throat and shoves him into the wall. he slaps her arm aside and punches her in the face.
spike: doesn't mean i won't.
scene change: cut to the hospital room. willow casts her stones and gives oz his cue.
scene direction: cordelia keeps waving the burning herbs and incense.
oz: quod perditum est, invenietur.
translation: what is lost, return.
willow: not dead... nor not of the living. spirits of the interregnum, i call.
scene change: cut to the mansion. xander pushes aside a curtain to another room and finds giles still tied to a chair.
xander: giles!
scene direction: giles' head is tilted back, and he is very weak.
xander: giles!
scene direction: giles lifts his head slowly. xander crouches behind the chair and begins to untie the ropes.
giles: xander?
xander: can you walk?
giles: you're not real.
xander: sure, i'm real.
giles: it's a trick. they get inside my head, make me see things i want.
scene direction: xander has untied the ropes and goes around to look into giles' face.
xander: then why would they make you see me?
scene direction: giles considers
giles: you're right. let's go.
scene direction: he groans as xander gets under his arm and helps him out of the chair.
xander: come on.
scene direction: they make their way though the main hall as fast as they can and out the door. buffy and the vampire continue to fight. drusilla swipes at spike with her hand and leaves four parallel scratches across his cheek. she follows up with a punch that knocks him to the floor. angelus wakes up and groans in pain. he rubs his eyes and looks up at acathla. he gets to his feet and goes over to the demon. buffy is still fighting the vampire. she blocks a kick from him, punches him, spins around and punches again, and he falls onto his back. buffy quickly follows him down with her stake and jams it into his chest. he bursts into ashes.
scene direction: behind her angelus takes the last few steps to acathla and grabs the sword stuck in his chest by the hilt with his bloody hand. a blindingly bright light emanates from it, and buffy looks up from her kill in time to witness angelus pulling the sword from the demon's heart. with a few telltale sparks the light is suddenly gone. angelus whips the sword around in his hand and holds it up to look at it. buffy scrambles to get her own sword. drusilla looks up from her fight and gazes at acathla with a smile.
drusilla: oh... here he comes.
scene direction: spike comes up behind her and grabs her around the throat with his arm, choking her.
scene change: cut to the hospital. willow continues her chant, but starts to feel weak.
willow: gods, bind him. cast his heart from the... evil... realm.
scene change: cut to the mansion. buffy holds up her sword and faces off with angelus.
scene direction: he holds his own ready to fight her also.
angelus: you almost made it, buff.
buffy: it's not over yet.
angelus: my boy acathla here is about to wake up. you're going to hell.
buffy: save me a seat.
scene direction: she thrusts at him with her sword, but he parries and swings around with a thrust of his own, which she also parries. they clash blades several times, and buffy ducks a wide arcing swing from him. they face off again and trade one thrust and parry after another. angelus tries another arcing swing from above, but she easily ducks and sidesteps out of the way. they face off again in front of acathla and trade a few more blows.
scene direction: angelus tries a swing from above a third time, and again buffy ducks it and escapes to the side. she jumps up on a low table and swings at him again. he parries, and swings at her legs. she jumps up and over his blade and lands on the floor. he tries for her legs again, but she blocks his attempt with her blade. again they trade several swings, and angelus tries a wide swing again, and this time cuts her superficially on the arm. he tries to take advantage of her distraction and comes at her with his sword held high, intending to swing from above, but she drops to the floor and rolls out of the way, so he only manages to smash a bowl on a table behind her. buffy kicks his legs out from under him and scrambles back up. he turns to face her still on his knees and swings three times in rapid succession, all of which she parries. he swings a fourth time, and this time buffy knocks his sword into the table with her parry and pins it there. he backhand punches her in the face, and she spins away. he pulls the sword from the table and swings it hard at her. she blocks it with hers, and kicks him in the gut, making him double over. she jumps over him into the clear, and raises her sword to continue the fight. he thrusts, and she parries. then he kicks her in her sword arm, and she stumbles back a step.
scene change: cut to the hospital. willow gets weaker as she chants and breathes heavily.
willow: return.
scene direction: willow pants
willow: i call on...
scene direction: willow pants
scene direction: oz worried
oz: willow?
scene direction: cordelia worried
cordelia: are you okay?
scene direction: without warning willow's head snaps back and she looks up with her eyes wide open. her head snaps back down and her eyes stare into the orb. she begins to chant steadily in rumanian as though possessed.
willow: te implor, doamne, nu ignora aceasta rugaminte.
translation: i implore you, lord, do not ignore this request.
scene direction: oz to cordelia
oz: is this a good thing?
willow: nici mort, nici al fiintei...
translation: neither dead, nor of the living...
scene direction: cordelia freaked out
cordelia: hey, speak english!
willow: lasa orbita sa fie vasul care-i va transporta, sufletul la el.
translation: let this orb be the vessel that will carry his soul to him.
scene change: cut to angelus' mansion. the fight has moved out into the atrium. buffy hits the ground and scrambles back to her feet as angelus slowly advances. she thrusts, and he parries. she spins around and swings at him, and he blocks her. her sword bounces off of his and falls with the tip onto the low wall of a planting bed. angelus stomps on the blade before she can raise it again and knocks it from her grip. he spins around and elbows her in the face, knocking her back into a stone table, which collapses and falls with her.
scene change: cut to acathla. deep thundering growls and noises come from him as he begins to wake.
scene change: cut to spike choking drusilla. she begins to lose consciousness and slumps over in his arms.
spike: sorry, baby. wish there was another way.
scene direction: when she begins to fall he catches her, lifts her into his arms and starts to carry her out. on the way he passes the doorway to the atrium and glances outside. when he sees them he stops to take a better look.
scene direction: buffy is backing up against the wall without her sword while angelus slowly and deliberately advances on her holding his.
spike: god, he's gonna kill her.
scene direction: he watches for another moment, then shrugs and heads for the garage with drusilla.
scene change: cut to the atrium. angelus plays with his sword, idly pointing it at buffy. she looks up at him, frightened.
angelus: now that's everything, huh? no weapons... no friends... no hope.
scene direction: buffy closes her eyes and steels herself for whatever's coming.
angelus: take all that away... and what's left?
scene direction: he draws the sword back and thrusts it directly at her face. with lightning-fast reflexes she swings up with both arms and catches the blade between the palms of her hands. she opens her eyes and meets his.
buffy: me.
scene direction: she shoves the blade away from her, and the hilt of the sword hits angelus in the face. he staggers back, and she hops to her feet and kicks him in the chest. he stumbles back even more, and she reaches down and picks up her sword. she swings it around and thrusts at him, but he manages to parry. they exchange several blows, blocking each other.
scene direction: buffy spins around and swings her sword down at him from above. he holds up his own to block, but she hits it hard and he falls to one knee. she swings again, and he blocks. she spins around with a roundhouse kick to his side, and he collapses to the ground.
scene direction: cut outside the garage. spike smashes through the door with his car. the windows are all painted black. he screeches into the street and guns it.
scene direction: cut into the car. drusilla is lying unconscious in the passenger's seat.
scene direction: spike concentrates on the road and whips around a corner. when heading straight again he looks over at her. he reaches around her neck and pulls her over to him, and holds her close as he keeps driving with only one hand on the wheel.
scene change: cut to the mansion. buffy kicks angelus, and he comes flying in through the door, hits the floor and rolls to a stop. before he can get all the way back to his feet buffy leaps in and swings her sword at him. he almost misses parrying her blow, and he steps back to get his footing.
scene direction: they exchange a few more swings. angelus misses a block and gets sliced on his hand.
scene change: cut to the hospital. the table lurches hard. the camera pans around willow and closes in on her face.
willow: asa sa fie! asa sa fie! acum!
translation: so it shall be! so it shall be! now!
scene change: cut to the mansion. angelus has dropped his sword and holds his cut.
scene direction: buffy does a high kick to his face, and he falls backward into acathla and lands on his knees before her.
scene change: cut to the hospital.
willow: acum!
translation: now!
scene direction: the orb glows brightly for a brief moment and goes dark. willow suddenly relaxes, and looks around blankly.
scene change: cut to the mansion. buffy raises her sword to dispatch angelus, but stays herself when he suddenly gasps loudly and groans in pain. she sees his eyes glow bright red for an instant and go back dark. he looks up at her, but quickly collapses to the floor, crying. buffy stares down at him, but still holds her sword raised behind her. angel raises himself back up, his eyes heavy with tears, and looks into her eyes.
scene direction: angel softly
angel: buffy?
scene direction: angel sobs
angel: what's going on?
scene direction: she just looks at him, confused but not yet ready to lower the sword. he looks around a bit and gets to his feet.
angel: where are we? i-i don't remember.
scene direction: finally buffy realizes that the curse has worked, and she slowly lowers her sword.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: angel?
scene direction: angel sees her wound
angel: you're hurt.
scene direction: she looks down at her wound and feels his gentle touch on her arm. she ignores her cut, looks back up at him and steps closer. he embraces her tightly.
angel: oh, buffy... god.
scene direction: she still isn't completely sure that it's true, but accepts the hug.
angel: i... i feel like i haven't seen you in months.
scene direction: finally she accepts it, closes her eyes and breathes out a deep sigh.
angel: oh, my god, everything's so muddled. i...
scene direction: he holds her even more closely.
angel: oh...
scene direction: he sighs deeply and kisses her on the shoulder.
angel: oh, buffy...
scene direction: she cries into his shoulder and hugs him back. behind him acathla lets out a low rumble. buffy opens her eyes and stares in shock as acathla's face contorts. his brows angle down, his eyes glow red, his mouth opens grotesquely and the swirling vortex to hell opens, small at first, but growing steadily in size and emanating a deep, red glow. buffy lets go of angel and looks up into his face.
scene direction: angel confused
angel: what's happening?
scene direction: buffy whispers reassuringly
buffy: shh. don't worry about it.
scene direction: she brushes her fingers over his lips and across his cheek. she lays her hand on his cheek and kisses him softly. he returns the kiss, and it becomes more passionate. behind them the vortex has grown to about five feet (1.5 m) across and continues to get larger. buffy breaks off the kiss and looks deeply into angel's eyes.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: i love you.
scene direction: angel whispers
angel: i love you.
scene direction: she touches his lips with her fingers again.
buffy: close your eyes.
scene direction: she nods reassuringly, and he closes his eyes. she tries hard not to start crying, and kisses him again gently. she steps back, draws back her sword and thrusts it into his chest. his eyes whip open in surprise and pain, and a bright light emanates from the sword. she steps away from him. he reaches out to her and looks down at the sword thrust completely through him. he looks at her imploringly, completely bewildered by this turn of events. she can only stare at the sword protruding from his chest, and slowly steps further back.
angel: buffy...
scene direction: behind him the power of the sword begins to swirl into the vortex. buffy steps further back, still looking only at the sword in his chest and not into his face. the vortex has enlarged to about twelve feet (3.5 m)
scene direction: across, and the two energies begin to interact. angel still holds out his hand to buffy. when the vortex finally meets him it suddenly closes into acathla's mouth without so much as a spark, taking him with it.
scene direction: buffy stares at the stone demon for a long moment, a light of awareness dawning in her eyes as she truly realizes what she has done, what she has lost. she begins to sob, her heart breaking. in the background "full of grace", by sarah mclachlan, begins to play over the scene.
lyrics: the winter here is cold...
scene change: dissolve to buffy's street. she walks across it toward her house.
lyrics: ...and bitter / it's chilled us to the bone / we haven't seen the sun for weeks / too long, too far from home she looks at the neighboring houses, then back at hers. cut into the house. joyce climbs the steps and looks down the hall at buffy's door.
lyrics: i feel just like i'm sinking joyce: buffy?
lyrics: and i claw for solid ground she walks to buffy's room and looks in. the windows are open, and some of her daughter's things are strewn on the bed. she steps in and looks around.
lyrics: i'm pulled down by the undertow she sees a note on the bed among a bunch of clothes.
lyrics: i never thought i could feel so low she picks up the note and reads.
lyrics: and, oh, darkness / i feel like letting go she begins to cry as she reads and sits down on the bed.
lyrics: if all of the strength and all of the courage / come and lift me from this place cut to sunnydale high school. xander and giles walk up to oz pushing willow in a wheelchair with cordelia at their side. giles' walk is a bit unsteady.
lyrics: i know i can love you much better than this / full of grace giles: willow, are you sure you should be out of bed?
willow: look who's talking.
scene direction: giles smiles
giles: yes.
cordelia: any word?
xander: you guys haven't seen her either?
willow: no.
oz: but we know the world didn't end, 'cause...
scene direction: oz looks around
oz: check it out.
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses and squints
giles: well, we, uh... we went back to the mansion. i-it was empty, um... and acathla was, was... dormant.
willow: i think the spell worked. i felt something go through me.
cordelia: plus the orb did that cool glow thing.
xander: well, maybe it wasn't in time. maybe she had to kill him before the cure could work.
oz: well, then, she'd wanna be alone, i guess.
willow: or maybe angel *was* saved, and they want to be alone together.
giles: perhaps.
cordelia: well, she's gotta show up sooner or later. we still have school.
willow: yeah.
scene direction: willow looks around for her
willow: she'll be here in a while.
lyrics: where everything we said and did / hurts us all the more they all turn and head into the school.
lyrics: it's just that we stayed too long / in the same old sickly skin cut to buffy looking at the school from behind a tree. she watches them as they go in.
lyrics: i'm pulled down by the undertow / i never thought i could feel so low the camera pans around her to her face, looking sadly at the school. a light breeze sweeps her hair back.
lyrics: and, oh, darkness / i feel like letting go she turns around and walks away down the street without looking back.
lyrics: if all of the strength and all of the courage / come and lift me from this place dissolve to the inside of a bus. buffy's reflection is visible in the window as it drives by her house.
lyrics: i know i can love you much better than this / full of grace buffy looks out the window calmly as the bus drives on.
scene change: cut to a two-lane road leading out of town. the bus passes under the camera on its way.
lyrics: i know i can love you much better than this the camera pans down to a sign that reads: now leaving sunnydale come back soon!
lyrics: it's better this wa 