scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: lunch hour at sunnydale high school. the camera pans at a very low angle along the sidewalk past the stairs at the front of the school. seniors are coming and going. the camera comes to rest on two pairs of legs, one standing calmly, the other rocking back and forth, heel to toe. the camera pans up to willow and oz, waiting for xander and cordelia so they can go. oz is characteristically calm, but willow is swaying around, almost nervously.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: i'm giddy.
oz: oh, i like you giddy. always have.
willow: it's the freedom! as seniors, we can go off-campus now for lunch. it's no longer cutting. it's legal! heck, it's expected! wow, it's, uh, also a big step forward, a senior moment, one that has to be savored.
scene direction: oz looks back and sees xander and cordelia coming.
willow: you can't just rush into this, you know?
scene direction: xander heads for willow's side opposite oz, and the two boys each grab an arm and start to pull her across the street.
willow: ohh!
scene direction: she starts to resist, leaning backward with all of her weight.
willow: no, i can't!
scene direction: oz and xander just lift her by the arms and pull harder. cordelia smiles at the spectacle.
xander: you can.
oz: see, you are.
willow: oh, but, no! what if they changed the rule without telling?
scene direction: what if they're lying in wait to *arrest* me a-and, and throw me in detention and mar my unblemished record?
scene direction: they reach the other side of the street, and oz and xander steady her on the sidewalk.
xander: breathe. breathe.
scene direction: willow takes a breath and lets it out, calming herself.
willow: okay. hmm...
scene direction: oz takes willow by the hand and xander puts his arm around cordelia.
scene direction: they begin walking into the small park in front of the school.
scene direction: willow relaxed
willow: this is good! this is... hey, we're seniors!
scene direction: willow with an attitude
willow: hey, i'm walkin' here!
scene direction: willow giggles
scene direction: they see buffy just inside the park. she has laid out a blanket in the shade of a palm tree by a bench, and is setting out serving plates of food and bottles of drinks. the group begins to walk toward her.
xander: ahh. buffy and food.
willow: maybe we shouldn't be too couple-y around buffy.
cordelia: oh, you mean 'cause of how the only guy that ever liked her turned into a vicious killer and had to be put down like a dog?
scene direction: xander admiringly
xander: can she cram complex issues into a nutshell, or what?
scene direction: they come up behind the tree just out of buffy's view.
oz: all right, prepare to uncouple...
scene direction: they take a few more steps.
oz: uncouple.
scene direction: they let go of each other as they come around the tree. willow crosses in front of xander so buffy sees girls on the right, boys on the left.
xander: buffy, banned from campus, but not from our hearts, how are you and what's for lunch?
scene direction: oz climbs onto the bench and sits on the backrest. the others kneel on the blanket.
buffy: oh, i just threw a few things together.
scene direction: cordelia impressed with buffy's offerings
cordelia: when did you become martha stewart?
buffy: first of all, martha stewart knows jack about hand-cut prosciutto.
scene direction: buffy hands out drink bottles
xander: i don't believe she slays, either.
oz: oh, i hear she can, but she doesn't like to.
scene direction: buffy opens her bottle
buffy: second of all, way too much free time on my hands since i got kicked out of school.
scene direction: buffy takes a drink
willow: oh, i know they'll let you back in.
scene direction: willow takes a drink
xander: don't you and your mom have a meeting with principal snyder?
buffy: we're seeing snyde-man tomorrow.
scene direction: willow notices a boy
willow: ooo, scott hope at eleven o'clock.
scene direction: willow buffy looks
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: he likes you. he wanted to ask you out last year, but you weren't ready then. but i think you're ready now, or at least in the state of pre-readiness to make conversation, or-or to do that thing with your mouth that boys like.
scene direction: buffy snaps her head around at willow and gives her a shocked look.
scene direction: willow realizes her slip-up
willow: oh! i didn't mean the *bad* thing with your mouth, i meant that little half-smile thing that you...
scene direction: willow glares at oz
willow: you're supposed to stop me when i do that.
scene direction: oz smiles and shakes his head
oz: i like when you do that.
scene direction: scott has finished talking with his friends and comes toward them. buffy watches him approach. as he passes he looks over at buffy.
scene direction: scott smiles
scott: hi, buffy.
scene direction: buffy smiles back
buffy: hi.
scene direction: scott just continues on his way. willow breaks out into a huge smile.
willow: i think that went very well. don't you think that went very well?
cordelia: he didn't try to slit our throats or anything.
scene direction: cordelia nods
cordelia: that's progress.
willow: hey, did you do that little half-smile thing?
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: look, i'm not trying to snare scott hope. i just want to get my life back, you know, do normal stuff.
willow: like date?
buffy: well...
xander: oh, you wanna date. i saw that half-smile, you little slut.
scene direction: xander chuckles
scene direction: buffy punches him on the arm, and none too lightly.
scene direction: xander smiles and chuckles
xander: ow.
scene direction: xander winces and holds his arm
buffy: all right, yes, date and shop and hang out and go to school and save the world from unspeakable demons. you know, i wanna do girlie stuff!
scene change: cut to happy burger that night. the camera pans down from a shot of the building, past the restaurant's mascot, a fat boy eating a burger, and stops on the building again. a black stretch-limousine pulls into the parking lot and heads toward the drive-through lane. cut to the back of the building. the car pulls up and stops at another fat boy fitted with a speaker and mic. the window of the limo lowers.
voice: welcome to happy burger. may i take your order, please?
trick: diet soda. medium.
voice: that'll be eighty-nine cents at the window, sir.
scene direction: trick raises the window, and the car pulls forward. cut inside the car.
trick: sunnydale.
scene direction: trick looks at the man next to him
trick: town's got quaint. and the people?
scene direction: trick smiles
trick: he called me 'sir'. don't you just miss that? i mean, admittedly, it's not a haven for the brothers, you know, strictly the caucasian persuasion here in the dale. but, you know, you just gotta stand up and salute their death rate. i ran a statistical analysis,
scene direction: trick smiles
trick: and hello darkness. it makes... d.c. look... like mayberry, and ain't nobody saying boo about it. we could fit right in here. have us some fun.
scene direction: the shot cuts to the other man, hidden in shadow.
scene direction: kakistos growls
kakistos: we're here for one thing.
scene direction: he pulls his cloven hand from trick's knee. trick looks at it, disgusted.
trick: kill the slayer, yeah. still, big picture...
scene direction: he lowers the window again, and looks out. cut outside. he hands the boy at the window a dollar. the boy hands him back the soda, a straw and his change.
scene direction: boy smiles
boy: have a nice night, sir.
scene direction: trick smiles
trick: right back at ya.
scene direction: trick sits back
scene direction: cut inside the limo.
kakistos: the slayer. i'm going to rip her spine from her body, and i'm going to eat her heart and suck the marrow from her bones.
scene direction: trick considers that for a moment, smacking his lips.
trick: now i'm hungry.
scene direction: cut outside. trick lunges out of the window, vamped out. the boy is shocked, and tries to move away, but trick already has him by the shirt.
scene direction: the boy screams as trick pulls him out of the building and part way into the limousine. the car takes off with the boy's legs kicking outside the window. the limo screeches through the parking lot and into the street.
scene direction: the camera stops on the happy burger mascot, its mouth wide open to take another bite from the burger that it's holding.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: the bronze. "the background" by third eye blind begins to play as the camera approaches the door. cut inside. the camera pans past several couples dancing slowly to the music. it comes to rest on buffy and angel. they hold each other close and look deeply into each other's eyes as they slowly dance.
lyrics: everything is quiet buffy: i miss you.
scene direction: at a nearby table oz, willow, cordelia and xander watch them dance.
scene direction: their faces are devoid of any expression.
lyrics: since you're not around buffy moves her left hand with her claddagh ring down angel's arm to take his hand.
lyrics: and i live in the numbness now the ring is loose on her finger, and before she can clasp his hand it falls off and clinks on the floor.
lyrics: in the background angel and buffy both look down at the ring.
lyrics: i do the things we did before angel reaches down to pick up the ring. the music fades out.
lyrics: i walk haight street to the store angel stands back up holding the ring. he gives buffy a wounded look.
scene change: she looks at the ring, frightened. suddenly she flashes back to the mansion and sees herself thrusting the sword through angel, and his surprised and pained face as the vortex closes and he disappears into acathla's mouth with it. her flashback is over, and the camera is on the gang at the table again, still watching, still expressionless. cut to angel and buffy on the dance floor.
buffy: i had to.
scene direction: angel's breath is shaky. he looks down at the ring in his fingers. he clenches it in his fist. blood begins to ooze from between his fingers and drip to the floor. he looks intensely at buffy.
angel: i loved you.
scene direction: buffy watches aghast as the blood continues to drip. then a bloodstain appears on his shirt at mid-chest. it grows quickly and begins to soak the front of his shirt. buffy draws a frightened, worried breath and reaches out to his wound.
buffy: oh, god! angel...
scene direction: angel yells
angel: go to hell!
scene direction: he stares at her with intense anger in his eyes. buffy looks up from his chest wound to his face. it has turned green, and one side is rotting.
scene direction: angel smiles and laughs smugly as he looks back at her.
angel: i did.
scene change: cut to buffy's room. she wakes from her dream with a start and jerks her head from the pillow. realizing it was only a dream, she puts her hand to her head and pulls it back through her hair. she sits up in bed and looks over at her nightstand. she reaches over, pulls open the drawer and lifts out a chain on which she has placed her claddagh ring. she sits up straight in her bed and looks closely at the ring again - two hands for friendship, a crown for loyalty and a heart for love. her mother knocks on her door and pokes her head in.
joyce: morning, sunshine!
scene direction: joyce smiles
joyce: ready to face the beast?
scene change: cut to snyder's office. he sits behind his desk, calmly giving it to them straight.
snyder: here are the terms of your re-entry, missy. take 'em or leave 'em.
scene direction: buffy takes a letter opener from his desk and begins to play with it.
snyder: one: that you pass a makeup test of every class you skipped out on last year.
scene direction: buffy looks around absentmindedly and taps the letter opener on her hand.
snyder: two: that you provide, in writing, one *glowing* letter of recommendation from any member of our faculty who is not an english librarian.
scene direction: buffy's tapping is beginning to annoy him.
snyder: three: that you complete an interview
scene direction: snyder stands up
snyder: with our school psychologist
scene direction: snyder walks around his desk toward buffy
snyder: who must conclude that your violent tendencies...
scene direction: he pauses for a moment, then snatches the letter opener from buffy's hand.
snyder: ...are under control.
joyce: i'm not sure i like your attitude, mr. snyder. i spoke with the school board, and according to them...
scene direction: snyder walks back around his desk
snyder: i'm required to educate every juvenile who is not in jail where she belongs.
scene direction: he stops and looks out the window with his back to them.
snyder: welcome back.
scene direction: joyce and buffy give each other a smile. buffy stands up.
buffy: so let me get this straight. i'm really back in school because the school board *overruled* you.
scene direction: buffy snyder faces her
buffy: wow. that's like having your whole ability to do this job called into question, when you think about it.
scene direction: joyce gets up also
joyce: i think what my daughter's trying to say is...
scene direction: joyce sing-song
joyce: nyah, nyah-nyah-nyah, nyah.
scene direction: she gives snyder a defiant look, and the two women turn and walk out of the office, proud of themselves. snyder just blankly watches them go.
scene direction: the intercom on his desk buzzes.
secretary: it's the mayor on line one.
scene direction: snyder's eyes quickly widen with worry.
scene change: cut to the library. willow and buffy walk in. the place seems to be empty of people.
willow: it's so great that you're a schoolgirl again.
buffy: giles say what he wanted? do you think he's mad?
scene direction: they stop at the counter. there are bowls and jars of various dried herbs arrayed on it.
willow: no, i don't think so. i think he just needed to see you.
scene direction: willow glances around
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: have you ever noticed, though, when he *is*
scene direction: mad, but he's too english to say anything, he makes that weird cluck- cluck sound with his tongue?
scene direction: giles suddenly rises up from behind the counter and looks at the things he's laid out on the counter.
buffy: hi, giles!
scene direction: buffy raises her eyebrows at willow and smiles
scene direction: willow turns to face him, looking worried
willow: oh, hi! been there long?
scene direction: giles preoccupied
giles: buffy, good timing.
scene direction: giles looks around behind the counter
giles: i could use your help. i trust you remember the demon acathla?
buffy: giles, contain yourself. yes, i'm back in school, but you know how it embarrasses me when you gush so.
scene direction: buffy giles looks up from his searching
buffy: let's just skip all that and get straight to work.
scene direction: giles slowly straightens up
giles: oh, ahhhh... well, i, um... well-w... o- o-of course, it's wonderful to have you back, i-i-it goes without saying.
scene direction: giles buffy raises her eyebrows at him and smiles
giles: but...
scene direction: giles notices buffy's look
giles: you enjoy making me say it, don't you?
scene direction: he sets his glasses on his nose and continues looking around. buffy plays with a bowl on the counter.
buffy: okay, acathla, huh? what are you doing, making him some demon pizza?
scene direction: she picks up a bundle of sage, sniffs it and frowns. she holds it over for willow to sniff, who smiles.
giles: we need to make sure that he remains dormant and that the dimensional vortex is sealed tight. so i'm working on a binding spell.
scene direction: willow perks up
willow: oh, a spell? can i help?
giles: possibly, with the research. it's very sensitive and...
scene direction: willow sounding hurt
willow: oh! who's more sensitive than me?
giles: ...and difficult spell.
scene direction: giles willow frowns
giles: it involves creating a- a-a protective circle around... well, i don't want to bore you with the details, but, uh, well, there's a litany th-that one has to recite in aramaic, and it's very specific. so i need to get a few details about your experience of defeating acathla and angel.
scene direction: he starts ingredient hunting again.
scene direction: buffy considers for a moment
buffy: fire away.
giles: i've put the time at about, um,
scene direction: giles checks his notes
giles: 6:17, around, about half an hour after xander rescued me.
scene direction: giles comes back to the counter
buffy: less. more like ten minutes.
giles: oh, was the vortex already open?
buffy: barely.
giles: i see. and angel?
buffy: a big fight, angel got the pointy end of the sword, acathla sucked him into hell instead of the world. that's about the it.
scene direction: giles writes a few notes
giles: yes, well, that, um... should be very helpful.
scene direction: buffy checks her watch
buffy: oh, no, i have to go take an english makeup exam.
scene direction: buffy gets her pile of books from the counter
buffy: they give you credit just for speaking it, right?
scene direction: she just gets looks from giles and willow.
scene direction: buffy whines
buffy: oh...
scene direction: she heads out the door to go take her exam. willow picks up the bundle of sage and sniffs it some more.
willow: mm, sage. i love that smell.
scene direction: willow reaches into a jar
willow: and marnox root. you know, a smidge of this mixed with a virgin's saliva...
scene direction: willow gets a look from giles
willow: does something i know nothing about.
giles: these forces are not something that one plays around with, willow. what have you been conjuring?
willow: nothing... much. well, you know, i tried this spell to cure angel, and i guess that was a bust. but since then, you know, small stuff: floating feather, fire out of ice, which next time i won't do on the bedspread.
scene direction: willow giles looks down
willow: are you mad at me?
scene direction: giles looks up
giles: no, of course not, no. if i were, i would be making a strange clucking sound with my tongue.
scene direction: willow is embarrassed and smiles cutely up at him.
scene change: cut to the bronze. the band tonight is darling violetta, playing "cure".
scene direction: the camera pans into the dance area and pauses on the band for a moment.
scene direction: most couples are dancing normally, but there's one couple that is a bit more energetic about it.
lyrics: i've given you every part of me / tried everything i could to make you see another couple leaves the dance floor, and the camera follows them until they pass by an alcove furnished like a turn-of-the-century parlor, with a love seat, a couple of armchairs, tables and a lamp with a pink shade.
scene direction: a couple is sitting on the loveseat having some romantic smoochies.
lyrics: but you don't love yourself buffy walks into view from behind carrying drinks and heads for them.
scene change: cut to the couple on the loveseat. it's willow and oz. buffy crosses in front of the camera and sits in an adjacent chair.
buffy: don't let me interrupt.
scene direction: willow and oz look up from their kissing. willow sits up. buffy smiles and hands oz one of the drinks.
oz: thanks.
lyrics: you can't love me or anyone else willow notices buffy's cheery mood and smiles as oz accepts another drink from her and passes one to willow.
willow: are you...
scene direction: willow to oz
willow: is she all glowy?
scene direction: buffy rolls her eyes up to the right and gives them an innocent look.
oz: yeah, i suspect happiness.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: i passed my english makeup exam, hangin' with my friends. hello, my life, how i've missed you.
lyrics: you said i was the best thing in your life scott approaches them.
willow: hi, scott. what are you doing here?
scene direction: scott gives her a smile
scott: you told me if i came after 8:00, i could run into buffy.
lyrics: is that why you run, why you hide?
scene direction: buffy shoots willow a look. willow is embarrassed and hides behind her drink, taking a big gulp.
scene direction: scott to buffy, smiling
scott: uh, i'm sorry. i'm a bad liar. it's not good for the soul.
scene direction: scott gestures at his face
scott: o-o-or the skin, actually. it makes me blotch.
lyrics: you will never be the cure buffy: hi, scott.
scene direction: lyrics smiles
scott: hi.
scene direction: things are a bit awkward now, and scott looks around for something to comment on.
lyrics: and you will never change scott: don't you love this song?
buffy: uh, yeah! actually, i do.
lyrics: you will never be the cure scott: well, would you like to...
scene direction: lyrics indicates the dance floor
buffy: dance? um...
scene direction: willow smiles at her encouragingly.
lyrics: and you will never change buffy: i don't know.
scene direction: lyrics willow frowns
lyrics: i'm bad with... well...
lyrics: you will never be the cure buffy:
scene direction: lyrics fidgets
lyrics: thank you for asking, it's just that there...
scott: okay, you know what? i'm just gonna go stand by the dance floor. if you change your mind, you can mosey on over, and then if not, then you don't mosey. no harm, no foul, right?
scene direction: buffy halfheartedly
buffy: right.
lyrics: i've given you every part of me scott walks off to find a place to wait. buffy rolls her eyes and flops her head back, mentally kicking herself for the way she handled that.
scene direction: willow very disappointed
willow: come on, buffy. i mean, the guy is charm, a-and normal, which is what you wanted to get back to.
lyrics: tried everything i could to make you see oz: plus bonus points for use of the word 'mosey'.
buffy: i just don't think i'm ready.
willow: what's stopping you?
lyrics: but you don't love yourself cordelia and xander walk up.
cordelia: check out slut-o-rama and her disco dave.
scene direction: she points and looks onto the dance floor as she and xander sit on a low table against a wall. the camera cuts to the energetically dancing couple. although the girl's style is more contemporary, the guy is dancing way too fast for the music, with an unmistakable 70's disco influence.
cordelia: what was the last thing that guy danced to, k.c. and the sunshine band?
scene direction: willow and oz both cock their heads to look at them.
lyrics: you can't love me or anyone else the couple continues to dance, getting close and touching each other at one point, then separating again.
lyrics: you said i was the best thing in your life buffy begins to really wonder about them. the couple gets close again, and the girl extends her arm, pointing at the door. the guy takes the hint, and leads her out with his arm around her. buffy watches them go, suspicious of his intentions. she sees him say bye to his buddy and head for the door.
buffy: i don't think that guy thrives on sunshine.
scene direction: she quickly puts down her drink and starts out after them. as she crosses the room behind the dance floor, scott sees her coming and steps over to intercept her.
scott: hi.
scene direction: buffy stops short, startled
buffy: hi. oh,
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: no, i...
scene direction: buffy points at the door
buffy: i-i have to...
scene direction: scott gets it
scott: oh. uh, uh, sorry, my bad.
scene direction: buffy apologetic
buffy: no. i-it's mine. really, it's mine, but i...
scene direction: buffy glances back at the others
buffy: i-i-i have to go.
scene direction: buffy hurries out
scene direction: scott is very confused, and just watches her leave.
scene direction: cut outside. buffy strides out and looks around. xander comes out right behind her followed closely by the others.
buffy: where'd she go?
scene direction: she takes a few steps down the alley to the left to check things out.
scene direction: the others looks around also.
cordelia: i bet it's nothing. they're probably just making out.
scene direction: buffy comes back. they hear a girl call out in a complaining tone.
girl: hey!
scene direction: they also hear a loud noise, as though something was just broken. xander pulls a stake out of his jacket. buffy takes it from him and heads in the direction of the noise.
willow: that's not what making out sounds like, unless i'm doing it wrong.
scene direction: they all follow buffy.
scene change: cut to the couple from the dance floor. the boy has the girl up against a section of temporary chain link fencing that's leaning against the building.
boy: stop struggling. this won't hurt.
scene direction: the boy vamps out and moves in to bite the girl. she grabs him by the neck, pushes him away a bit and elbow jabs him in the face. he staggers back and regains his balance as she jumps onto a crate. she does a jumping roundhouse kick to his face, knocking him to the pavement. buffy arrives. the girl notices her and approaches, smiling.
girl: it's okay, i got it. you're, uh, buffy, right?
scene direction: buffy is taken aback. just as she's about to answer, the vampire comes up behind the girl and grabs her by the shoulders. she snaps her head back to head butt him in the face and grabs onto his arm.
faith: i'm faith.
scene direction: she twists the vampire around and shoves him into the section of chain link fence.
scene direction: oz to willow
oz: i'm gonna go out on a limb and say there's a new slayer in town.
scene direction: faith knees him in the gut from behind. the vamp whirls around and tries to backhand punch her, but she easily ducks it. she punches him in the gut and then again in the face. everyone just watches her fight. xander follows her moves with jerks of his head. she does a high side kick to the vampire's jaw, grabs onto his shirt and neck and throws him to the ground. the vamp does a no-hand front roll to control his fall while faith reaches over to buffy for the stake and jerks it from her hand.
faith: can i borrow that?
scene direction: the vampire uses the momentum of his roll to get back to his feet and runs at faith, throwing a punch as he comes. she ducks it, hooks her hand on his shoulder, turns him around and pushes him back into the fence. she raises the stake and jams it cleanly into his chest and jerks it back out. the vampire instantly crumbles into ashes. buffy stares in confused amazement. faith faces her and hands her back the stake.
faith: thanks, b. couldn't have done it without you.
scene direction: she just continues walking past them all. buffy turns to stare after her, unsure how to react.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: the bronze. the camera follows a waitress holding a tray of six muffins past the pastry counter and into an alcove where faith has joined the gang and is relating one of her stories to them.
faith: the whole summer it was, like, the worst heat wave. so it's about a hundred and eighteen degrees and i'm sleeping without a stitch on.
scene direction: the waitress sets the tray on a table and leaves.
faith: and all of a sudden, i hear this screaming from outside. so i go tearing out, stark nude,
scene direction: faith xander looks down at her body, licking his lips
faith: and this church bus has broke down, and there's these three vamps feasting
scene direction: faith buffy listens calmly
faith: on half the baptists in south boston.
scene direction: faith willow listens intently
faith: so i waste the vamps, and the preacher comes up, and he's hugging me like there's no tomorrow, when all of a sudden, the cops pull up and they arrested us both.
scene direction: she reaches for a muffin. xander stares blankly ahead of himself, trying to picture the scene.
xander: wow. they should film that story and show it every christmas.
scene direction: cordelia, sitting next to him with her arms and legs crossed, turns her head to him and gives him a look. faith tears into the muffin.
faith: god, i could eat a horse. isn't it crazy how slayin' just always makes you hungry and horny?
scene direction: faith gobbles a piece
scene direction: the others all turn their heads to look at buffy. she stares back wide- eyed and suddenly uncomfortable.
buffy: well... sometimes i-i crave a nonfat yogurt afterwards.
scene direction: a look of sudden revelation washes across cordelia's face, and she smiles.
cordelia: i get it.
scene direction: faith gives her a confused look.
cordelia: not the horny thing. yuck! but the two slayer thing. there was one, and then buffy died for, like, two minutes, so then kendra was called, and then when she died, faith was called.
scene direction: faith gives her a nod.
willow: but why were you called here?
faith: well, i wasn't. my watcher went off to some retreat thing in england, and so i skipped out. i figured this was my chance to meet the infamous buff and compare notes.
scene direction: faith buffy gives her a little smile
faith: so, b, did you really use a rocket launcher one time?
buffy: uh, yeah,
scene direction: buffy leans forward
buffy: actually, it's a funny story. there was...
scene direction: xander interrupts
xander: so what was the, uh, story about that alligator?
scene direction: you, uh, said something... before.
scene direction: faith with lots of gesturing
faith: oh, there's this big daddy vampire out of missouri who used to keep them as pets. so he's got me rasslin' one of 'em, okay? the thing must have been twelve feet
scene direction: faith 3.7 m
faith: long and i'm...
scene direction: xander interrupts
xander: so was this, um, ahem, also naked?
scene direction: faith teases
faith: well, the alligator was.
scene direction: faith laughs
scene direction: xander smiles at her and laughs also.
cordelia: xander?
scene direction: cordelia glares when he looks
cordelia: find a new theme.
scene direction: faith shakes her head
faith: i tell ya, i never had more trouble than that damn vamp.
scene direction: faith to buffy
faith: so what about you? what was your toughest kill?
scene direction: buffy lowers her eyes and has another flashback to stabbing angel in the chest with the sword, and his look of surprise and pain. she comes back and shakes herself out of her reverie.
buffy: um, well, you know,
scene direction: buffy smiles weakly
buffy: they're all difficult, i guess.
scene direction: faith waits for a story and takes a drink.
buffy: uh...
scene direction: buffy remembers
buffy: oh! oh, do you guys remember the three?
scene direction: they all look back inquisitively.
buffy: that's right, you never met the three. well, there was three...
scene direction: oz interrupts
oz: something occurring. uh, now, you both kill vamps, and who could blame you, but, i'm, i'm wondering about your position on werewolves.
scene direction: willow put her hand on his shoulder
willow: oz is a werewolf.
buffy: it's a long story.
scene direction: buffy grins
scene direction: oz shrugs
oz: i got bit.
buffy: apparently not that long.
scene direction: faith considers briefly
faith: hey, as long as you don't go scratchin' at me or humpin' my leg, we're five-by-five, you know?
oz: fair enough.
faith: the vamps, though, they better get their asses to defcon one,
scene direction: faith points to buffy
faith: 'cause you and i are gonna have fun, you know, watcherless and fancy-free.
scene direction: faith smiles
buffy: watcherless?
scene direction: faith looks around at everyone
faith: didn't yours go to england, too?
scene change: cut to the library. giles stands at the end of the table with his hands in his pockets, reminiscing about the gatherings.
giles: there's a watchers' retreat every year in the cotswolds.
scene direction: giles walks to the other end of the table
giles: it's a lovely spot. it's very s-serene.
scene direction: giles everyone listens
giles: there's horse riding and hiking and punting
scene direction: giles smiles
scene direction: and lectures and discussions. it-i-it's... it's a great honor to be invited. (a tad bitter) or so i'm told.
faith: oh, it's boring. way too stuffy for a guy like you.
buffy: um, maybe i should introduce you again. faith, this is *giles*.
scene direction: willow smirks.
faith: i see him. if i'd've known they came *that* young and cute, i would've requested a transfer.
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses.
scene direction: buffy grossed out
buffy: raise your hand if 'ew'.
scene direction: buffy raises her hand
scene direction: xander raises his, but hides it by scratching his cheek.
scene direction: giles chuckles
giles: well, um, uh, leaving aside for a moment my, uh, youth and beauty,
scene direction: giles goes to the copier
giles: i'd-i'd say it was, um,
scene direction: giles grabs the newspaper
giles: fortuitous that faith arrived when she did.
scene direction: giles comes back with it
scene direction: willow shoots up her finger
scene direction: willow loudly
willow: aha!
scene direction: they all look at her.
willow: sorry. i just meant...
scene direction: willow shoots up her finger again
scene direction: willow loudly
scene direction: aha! there's big evil brewin'. you'll never be bored here, faith. (faith grins at her) 'cause this is sunnydale, home of the big brewin' evil.
giles: yes, well, i don't know how big an evil it is, but, uh, two people have disappeared from the sunset ridge district.
scene direction: he hands buffy the newspaper. she and faith quickly scan the article.
buffy: well, i'm good for patrolling. late-ish, though. i promised mom i'd be home for dinner.
scene direction: she hands xander the paper. willow nods toward faith while looking at buffy with big eyes. buffy turns her eyes to faith, and gets the hint.
buffy: um, to which you're also invited, of course, dinner with us.
faith: dyin' to meet the fam. i'm in.
buffy: great! great, then we can patrol,
scene direction: buffy less than thrilled
buffy: also together.
willow: hey, don't you have that health science makeup?
buffy: oh, yeah. actually, i could use a little coaching.
scene direction: willow hops off of the table, smiling. xander grabs his things behind him.
scene direction: willow to faith
willow: you know, you can hang out with us while she's testing. you wanna?
scene direction: buffy mumbles to herself, realizing she's just become invisible to them.
xander: say yes and, uh, bring your stories.
scene direction: xander smiles as he walks out past faith
scene direction: buffy goes to the table
buffy: you guys go. it's fine. fine! i'll just...
scene direction: buffy sits
buffy: sit.
scene direction: faith to buffy
faith: okay. hey, later.
scene direction: faith to giles
faith: *we* will talk weapons.
scene direction: she follows xander and willow out of the library. giles watches her go.
scene direction: giles points
giles: this, um, this new girl seems to
scene direction: giles sits on the table
scene direction: have a lot of zest. (smiles)
scene direction: buffy glares up at him. he quickly changes the subject.
giles: i-i-i've been having a little problem with the, uh, binding spell for acathla. i-i-i'm lacking the, the requisite details to perform it correctly. now, physical location. acathla was facing south?
buffy: mm-hm.
scene direction: buffy points to three positions on the table
buffy: acathla, angel, me.
scene direction: buffy makes a jabbing gesture through the three positions
buffy: sword.
scene direction: buffy looks up at him
giles: now, see, that's what i thought, but i...
scene direction: buffy interrupts and stands up
buffy: giles, look, i've got makeup tests to pass,
scene direction: buffy pulls on her backpack
buffy: missing people in sunset ridge, and a zesty new slayer to feed.
scene direction: buffy grabs her books
buffy: next time i kill angel, i'll video it.
scene direction: she walks out of the library to go take her test. giles seems confused.
scene change: cut to the hall. willow, faith and xander come in through the door at the end of the hall. they are giving faith the tour.
willow: and over here, we have the cafeteria,
scene direction: willow points at the door
willow: where we were mauled by snakes.
scene direction: xander points down
xander: and this is the spot where angel tried to kill willow.
willow: oh,
scene direction: willow points, smiling
willow: and over there in the lounge is where spike and his gang nearly massacred us all on parent-teacher night.
scene direction: faith is finding it all pretty incredible, and smiles. they reach the stairs, and willow points up to the landing.
willow: oh, a-and up those stairs, i was sucked into a muddy grave.
scene direction: they stop walking.
xander: and they say young people don't learn anything in high school nowadays, but, um, i've learned to be afraid.
scene direction: xander smiles
scene direction: willow nods in agreement.
scene direction: faith grins and laughs
faith: you guys are a hoot and a half. if i'd had friends like you in high school, i... probably still would've dropped out. but i might've been sad about it, you know?
scene direction: willow and xander give her understanding nods and exchange a smile.
scene direction: faith crosses her arms
faith: hey, so what's up with b? i mean, she seems wound kinda tight. needs to find the fun a little? like you two.
willow: well, um, she...
scene direction: faith spies the drinking fountain and points
faith: oh. water.
scene direction: willow and xander turn to watch her go to the fountain. cordelia approaches behind them.
xander: oh, and then the alligator story!
scene direction: xander to willow
xander: she's got something, doesn't she?
cordelia: what is it with you and slayers?
scene direction: cordelia xander jerks around to face her
cordelia: maybe i should dress up as one and put a stake to your throat.
xander: please, god, don't let that be sarcasm.
scene direction: xander takes her arm and smiles
scene direction: the camera moves over to faith finishing her drink. scott comes out of the cafeteria and almost bumps into her. she jumps back.
scott: oh. excuse me.
faith: sorry.
scene direction: faith looks at him curiously
faith: i know you from somewhere.
scene direction: scott recognizes her also
scott: the bronze. you're friends with buffy, right?
faith: yeah. i'm faith.
scene direction: faith holds out her hand
scene direction: scott accepts it
scott: i'm scott. nice to meet you.
faith: nice to meet you!
scene direction: they let go of their handshake. buffy comes hopping down the stairs and joins xander, cordelia and willow.
buffy: well, i'm two for two with makeup tests. proud, yes, but also humble in this time of...
scene direction: buffy notices them all staring
buffy: we're looking at what?
scene direction: she looks also and sees scott talking and laughing with faith.
cordelia: does anyone believe that is her actual hair color?
scene direction: she rolls her eyes in disbelief and walks away.
willow: i haven't seen him laugh like that. hey, maybe faith and scott could hit it off.
scene direction: willow buffy looks at her
willow: i mean, if you're done with him.
scene direction: willow realizes she's doing it again
willow: not that you used him.
scene direction: she furrows her brow, sighs and shuts up while she still can. buffy looks back at the two of them talking.
buffy: well, i... hadn't definitely one hundred percent said no for all time. it's just, you know... you don't enter into these things lightly, you know. there's, there's repercussions to consider and...
scene direction: she sees willow and xander exchange a look.
buffy: why am i seeing a look?
scene direction: willow looks at her
willow: you really *do* need to find the fun, b.
scene direction: buffy looks at willow in surprise.
willow: uffy.
scene direction: buffy sighs and decides to head over to faith and scott.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: hey!
scott: hey, buffy! uh, faith has been telling me tall tales.
scene direction: buffy smiles big
buffy: she's funny.
scene direction: buffy takes her arm
buffy: and she's leaving. we have to go.
scene direction: scott disappointed
scott: oh...
faith: bye.
scene direction: buffy pulls her away and down the hall.
scene direction: faith gestures back
faith: he's a cutie. is he seeing anybody?
scene direction: buffy just ignores her and continues down the hall.
scene change: cut to a warehouse where kakistos and trick are holed up. the lights are low and candles are burning everywhere. trick is typing away on his palm-top computer.
kakistos: mr. trick, talk to me.
scene direction: trick looks up
trick: check this out.
scene direction: trick walks over
trick: this town, this very street, wired for fiber optics.
scene direction: trick grins widely
trick: see, we jack in a t-3, um, twenty-five hundred megs per, we have the whole *world* at our fingertips.
scene direction: kakistos looks up at him, not really understanding.
trick: what i'm saying is,
scene direction: trick grins
trick: we stay local--where the humans are jumpin' and the cotton is high--but we live global. i mean, you know, you get the hankering for the blood of a fifteen-year-old filipina, and i'm on the 'net and she's here the next day, express air.
scene direction: trick smiles widely
scene direction: kakistos losing his patience
kakistos: i want the blood of the slayer.
scene direction: trick can't believe kakistos' shortsightedness, and looks aside for a moment.
trick: on that note, there's good news and bad. rumor has it that this town already has a slayer, which makes two.
scene direction: trick shakes his head
trick: i'm not real sure how that happened.
scene direction: kakistos jumps up from his chair, shouting
kakistos: i don't care if there're a *hundred* slayers! i'll kill them all!
scene direction: kakistos indicates his scarred, blinded eye
kakistos: she's going to pay for what she did to me.
scene direction: trick nods
trick: yeah, she is.
scene direction: trick there's a knocking at the door
trick: i'm running a computer check on every hotel, rooming house and youth hostel in town.
scene direction: trick goes to get a welder's glove
trick: meanwhile, as soon as the sun goes down,
scene direction: trick pulls on the glove
trick: we're out in force.
scene direction: trick heads for the door
scene direction: food's here, boys.
scene direction: he opens the door, hiding behind it from the bright daylight outside.
scene direction: the pizza man looks in.
pizza man: you guys order a piz...
scene direction: trick lunges out with his gloved arm, grabs him by the shirt and yanks him in. the pizza falls to the floor along with the delivery man as trick slams the door shut again. he roars and bends down for lunch.
scene change: cut to the summers house. joyce is serving dinner to faith.
joyce: so you're a slayer, too. isn't that interesting!
scene direction: joyce smiles
joyce: do you like it?
scene direction: joyce sets down the bowl
faith: god, i love it!
scene direction: buffy wants the bowl
buffy: uh, mom?
scene direction: joyce waves her off
joyce: uh, just a second, honey.
scene direction: joyce scoops broccoli onto faith's plate
joyce: you know, buffy never talks that way. why do you love it?
scene direction: buffy gives up and grabs a pair of tongs to take some fries for herself.
faith: well, when i'm fighting, it's like the whole world goes away and i only know one thing: that i'm gonna win and they're gonna lose. i like that feelin'.
scene direction: faith digs into her food
scene direction: joyce smiles at that and takes her seat.
buffy: well, sure. beats that dead feeling you get when they win and you lose.
faith: i don't let that kind of negative thinking in.
scene direction: joyce points at faith
joyce: right.
scene direction: joyce shakes her finger
joyce: right. that could get you hurt. buffy can be awfully negative sometimes.
scene direction: joyce to buffy
joyce: see, honey, you gotta fight that.
scene direction: joyce smiles
scene direction: buffy smiles back weakly
buffy: i'm working on it.
scene direction: buffy keeps taking fries
scene direction: joyce notices faith's empty glass
joyce: oh, faith, can i get you another soft drink?
scene direction: faith hands over the glass
faith: oh, you bet.
joyce: right.
scene direction: joyce goes into the kitchen
faith: she's really cool, huh?
buffy: best mom ever.
scene direction: buffy looks back into the kitchen
buffy: excuse me.
scene direction: she gets up and goes. faith grabs a bottle of hot sauce, gives it a sniff and grimaces.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. joyce gets out a bottle of cola, brings it to the island and opens it.
joyce: i like this girl, buffy.
scene direction: joyce pours the soda
buffy: she's very personable.
scene direction: buffy sits on a stool
buffy: she gets along with my friends, my watcher, my mom.
scene direction: buffy leans back and looks into the dining room
scene direction: look, now she's getting along with my fries. (leans forward)
scene direction: joyce closes the soda bottle
joyce: now, buffy...
buffy: plus, at school today, she was making eyes at my not-boyfriend.
scene direction: this is creepy.
scene direction: joyce crosses her arms
joyce: does anybody else think faith is creepy?
scene direction: buffy pouts
buffy: no, but i'm the one getting single-white-femaled here.
scene direction: joyce nods
joyce: it's probably good you were an only child.
buffy: mom, i'm just getting my life back. i'm not looking to go halfsies on it.
joyce: well, there are some things i'd be happy to see you share. like the slaying. i mean, two of you fighting is safer than one, right?
buffy: i guess.
joyce: unless, i mean, you heard her. she *loves* the slaying.
scene direction: joyce leans over the island
joyce: couldn't she take over for you?
buffy: mom, no one can take over for me.
joyce: but you're going to college next year. i think it would be...
buffy: mom, the only way you get a new slayer is when the old slayer dies.
scene direction: this quickly registers in joyce's mind, and she straightens back up.
scene direction: buffy realizes she's just said way too much.
joyce: then that means you...
scene direction: joyce upset
joyce: when did you die? you never told me you died!
buffy: no, i-it was just for a few minutes.
scene direction: joyce starts to pace nervously
joyce: oh, i hate this. i hate your life.
buffy: mom, i...
scene direction: joyce faces her daughter
joyce: look, i-i know you didn't choose this, i know it chose you.
scene direction: joyce takes a breath
joyce: i have tried to march in the 'slayer pride' parade, but...
scene direction: joyce suddenly very solemn
joyce: i don't want you to die.
scene direction: buffy lowers her eyes, shakes her head and gives her mother a warm hug.
joyce: oh...
buffy: i'm not gonna die. i know how to do my job.
scene direction: buffy releases the hug
buffy: besides, like you said, i've got help now.
scene direction: she looks into the living room to see faith picking at everything in sight and stuffing it into her mouth.
scene direction: buffy raises her eyebrows
buffy: i've got all the help i can stand.
scene change: cut to an alley at night. there is construction equipment lying around.
scene direction: buffy and faith come strolling along, looking around for any vampires.
faith: didn't we, um, do this street already?
buffy: funny thing about vamps. they'll hit a street even *after*
scene direction: you've been there. it's like they have no manners.
scene direction: faith shrugs
faith: mm. you've been doing this the longest.
buffy: i have.
faith: yeah. maybe a little *too* long.
scene direction: buffy looks at faith
buffy: excuse me? what's that supposed to mean?
faith: nothing.
buffy: you got a problem?
scene direction: faith spreads her arms
faith: i'm five-by-five, b, living entirely large, actually wondering about
scene direction: faith points at her
faith: *your* problem.
buffy: well, i may not sleep in the nude and rassle alligators...
faith: maybe it's time you started, 'cause obviously *something* in your bottle needs uncorking. what is it,
scene direction: faith gestures wildly
faith: the, the angel thing?
scene direction: faith keeps looking around
scene direction: buffy stops in her tracks
buffy: what do you know about angel?
scene direction: faith faces her, copping an attitude
faith: just what your friends tell me: big love, big loss. you oughta deal and move on, but you're not.
scene direction: buffy steps closer
buffy: i got an idea: how about from now on, we don't hear from you on angel or anything else in my life. which, by the way, is *my* life.
faith: what are you getting so strung out for, b?
buffy: why are your lips still moving, f?
faith: did i just hear a threat?
buffy: would you like to?
faith: wow. think you can take me?
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: buffy looks over faith's shoulder
buffy: i just hope they can't.
scene direction: she shoves faith aside as a vampire attacks, making her fall to the ground. buffy punches the vamp in the gut, and he goes flying onto his back. a second one comes in and takes a swing at buffy, but she ducks him. she middle blocks his wide punch and low blocks his next punch. she then punches him in the face and the gut. she takes his head in both hands and twists. his body follows the motion, and he log rolls down to the ground. faith gets back up and grabs a nearby trashcan. a third vampire runs in and punches buffy in the face. he goes around behind her and trips her with his outstretched leg, making her fall to the ground.
scene direction: behind him faith crams the trashcan down over his head, blinding him.
scene direction: she takes hold of the can and pushes him into a sheet of drywall. the board breaks and falls on top of him as he falls over. one of the others dives for buffy, but she rolls out of the way and onto her feet.
scene direction: immediately she crouches down and stakes him in the chest. he bursts into ashes. the other one grabs her from behind and pulls her away.
scene direction: faith's opponent is back up, and she spins around once and does a side kick, getting him in the stomach. the kick forces him back, and he knocks his head hard into a low pipe behind him. buffy's attacker throws her onto a stack of plywood. she hits the wall behind it, but quickly gets to her feet. the vampire jumps onto the stack just in time to be side kicked in the stomach. he flies back and lands on a dumpster hard on his back, rolls off and falls to the ground. faith's assailant punches her in the face, but she isn't fazed in the least. she blocks two punches with her forearms and then backhand punches him in the face.
faith: my dead mother hits harder than that!
scene direction: she grabs him by the sweater and throws him onto a couple of sheets of drywall laid across two sawhorses. they break instantly under his weight. she runs up to him, grabs his sweater and punches him in the face. buffy flips her opponent in an awkward open front layout, and he lands hard on a large duct pipe, which crushes under him. she looks over at faith, who is whaling away on her vampire with continuous punches to the face.
buffy: faith! stake him already and give me a hand!
scene direction: still another vampire grabs her by her jacket and throws her to the ground. she lands on her stomach near a piece of wood lying there. the vampire and her original attacker both make a grab for her. meanwhile faith keeps whaling on her victim.
faith: this is *me*,
scene direction: faith punch
faith: you un
scene direction: faith punch
faith: dead
scene direction: faith punch
faith: bastard!
scene direction: buffy reaches desperately for the piece of two-by-four in front of her.
vampire: for kakistos we live! for kakistos you'll die!
scene direction: buffy glances up at him for an instant, then continues desperately clawing for the hunk of wood.
scene direction: buffy screams
buffy: faith!
scene direction: faith pays her no attention and just keeps punching her vampire to a pulp.
buffy: oh!
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the alley. buffy keeps reaching for the two-by-four. faith continues her pounding. buffy finally manages to grab the board, and she swings it up and beans one of the vampires in the face with it, and turning to the other, push kicks him off of her. she quickly gets to her feet and looks over at faith.
buffy: faith!
scene direction: the one she kicked off makes a grab at her from behind, and she instinctively turns and jams the makeshift stake home. the vampire crumbles to ashes. she drops the hunk of wood, reaches into her jacket for a proper stake and heads over to faith. faith is still whaling on the vampire, long after he's too dazed to fight back.
faith: you
scene direction: faith punch
faith: can't
scene direction: faith punch
faith: touch
scene direction: faith punch
faith: me!
scene direction: she shakes the vampire a bit before going back to punching him. buffy comes up behind her, grabs her by the waist and pulls her off of him.
scene direction: she them thrusts down with her stake and dusts him. without skipping a beat she confronts faith with her behavior.
buffy: what is wrong with you?
faith: what are you talking about?
buffy: i'm talking about you 'living large' on that vampire!
faith: gee, if doing violence to vampires upsets you, i think you're in the wrong line of work!
buffy: yeah, or maybe you like it a little too much.
faith: i was getting the job done.
buffy: the job is to slay demons! *not* beat them to a bloody pulp while their friends corner me!
scene direction: faith shrugs
faith: i thought you could handle yourself.
scene direction: faith walks off
scene direction: buffy lets out an exasperated sigh.
scene change: cut to the school halls the next day. buffy and giles come out of the cafeteria and walk toward the library.
giles: what you must realize, buffy, is that you and faith have very different temperaments.
scene direction: giles sips his coffee
buffy: yeah, and mine's the sane one.
scene direction: buffy giles chuckles
buffy: the girl's not playing with a full deck, giles. she has almost no deck. she has a three.
giles: you said yourself that she-she killed one. sh-she-she's just a plucky fighter who got a little carried away. which is natural. she's focused on the slaying. she doesn't have a whole other life here, as you do.
buffy: she doesn't need a life. she has mine.
giles: i think you're being a little...
buffy: no, i'm being a lot.
scene direction: buffy giles sips again
buffy: i know that. but she nearly got us both killed. the girl needs help.
giles: all right. i'll see if i can reach her watcher at the retreat. they're
scene direction: giles checks his watch
giles: eight hours ahead now. i guess they're probably sitting down to a nightcap.
scene direction: buffy continues on toward the library, but giles just stands there and starts to stare off into space.
giles: i wonder if they still kayak. i used to love a good kayak.
scene direction: giles buffy comes back
giles: you see, t-they don't even consider...
scene direction: giles sees her looking at him
giles: sorry. i digress.
scene direction: giles they both continue
giles: the, um, vampires that attacked you, can you furnish me with some details that might help me trace their lineage? i mean, ancient or-or-or modern dress. amulets, cultish tattoos...
scene direction: giles sips his coffee
buffy: uh, no tats. crappy dressers. and, uh... oh, the one that nearly bit me mentioned something about kissing toast.
scene direction: buffy a spark of recognition appears on giles' face
buffy: he lived for kissing toast.
giles: you mean 'kakistos'?
scene direction: buffy tries to remember
buffy: maybe it was taquitos. maybe he lived for taquitos.
scene direction: buffy looks at him
buffy: what?
giles: kakistos.
scene direction: giles heads into the library
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: is that bad?
scene direction: buffy follows him
scene direction: cut into the library. giles quickly paces in and sets his things on the counter.
giles: 'kakistos' is greek. it means the worst of the worst.
scene direction: giles heads behind the counter
giles: it's also the name of a vampire so old that his hands and feet are cloven.
scene direction: he goes into his office and comes out with a book, setting it on the counter and leafing through it.
buffy: now, this guy shows up two days ago, right? right around the same time my bestest new little sister makes the scene.
scene direction: giles looks up and considers
giles: you think he and faith are connected?
buffy: giles, there are two things that i don't believe in: coincidence and leprechauns.
giles: well, buffy, it's entirely possible that they both arrived here by chance simultaneously.
buffy: okay, but i was right about the leprechauns, right?
scene direction: giles thinks for a moment
giles: as far as i know, yes.
buffy: good. okay, you get england on the phone. i'm gonna talk to faith, see if 'khaki trousers' rings...
giles: kakistos.
buffy: kakistos rings a bell. or an alarm.
giles: right.
buffy: right.
scene direction: buffy heads out
scene change: cut to the hall. buffy strides toward the lounge and is about to round the corner toward the exit when scott approaches her.
scott: hi.
scene direction: buffy surprised to see him
buffy: scott!
scott: how are you?
buffy: uh, o-okay. you know, i-i gotta...
scott: i know, be somewhere else, right? think of this as my last-ditch effort. i realize that one more is gonna qualify as stalking.
scene direction: scott nervously
scott: i've given it a lot of thought--some might say too much thought--to, to how i might be a part of your life. it begins with conversation. we all know this. maybe over a cup of coffee, or maybe at the buster keaton festival playing on state street all this weekend.
scene direction: buffy finds this to be a very sweet overture and smiles warmly. she takes a moment to consider his offer.
buffy: you know, come to think of it, i-i don't think i've given a fair chance to... buster keaton. i... i like what i've seen of him so far. i... i think it might be time to see a little more.
scene direction: scott takes and releases a breath, smiling
scott: keaton is key. oh.
scene direction: scott reaches into a pocket
scott: um, i got you a little present.
scene direction: scott pulls out a small box
scott: the guy in the retro shop said that it represents friendship,
scene direction: scott holds it out to her
scott: and that's something i would very much like to have with you.
scene direction: buffy takes the box, looks up at him and back at the box. she takes off the lid and looks at what's inside. it's a claddagh ring.
scott: you like?
scene direction: she immediately has an anxiety attack, and drops the box. the ring falls free of its padding and hits the floor with an echoing clinking. giles comes down the hall toward them just in time to see it fall.
buffy: i can't. i-i-i-i can't do this.
scene direction: buffy takes a quick breath
scene direction: scott bends down to pick up the box and the ring. he looks at her and at the ring.
scott: okay. i get the message.
scene direction: scott leaves
scene direction: buffy just stands there as if in a trance. giles reaches out to her.
giles: are you all right?
scene direction: she shoves off his caring hand, not realizing who it is.
buffy: uh...
scene direction: buffy looks up
buffy: giles, i, uh...
scene direction: buffy wipes a tear
buffy: yeah, i'm fine.
scene direction: buffy tries to settle herself
buffy: um, did you reach the retreat?
scene direction: giles looks at the floor
giles: yes, i did.
buffy: w-what did her watcher say?
giles: her watcher's dead.
scene direction: buffy stares back in disbelief.
scene change: cut to a cheap hotel. cut into a room. the hotel manager is having a talk with faith.
manager: the room's eighteen dollars a day. that's every day.
faith: yeah, i know. i'll get it to you by tomorrow, i swear.
scene direction: manager sighs and shrugs
manager: it's not like i own the place.
scene direction: faith gives him a smile
faith: but i bet you will someday.
manager: not if i listen to broads like you.
scene direction: buffy appears at the door and steps in.
scene direction: manager to faith, indicating buffy
manager: roommates are extra.
buffy: i'm just visiting.
scene direction: the manager gives up and walks out of the room. buffy reaches for the door to pull it shut.
faith: so, what brings you to the poor side of town?
scene direction: the door slams closed, and buffy faces faith.
buffy: cloven guy. goes by the name kakistos.
scene direction: faith taken aback
faith: what do you know about kakistos?
buffy: that he's here.
scene direction: the look on faith's face betrays her apprehension at hearing this.
buffy: we're not happy to see old friends, are we? what'd he do to you?
scene direction: faith quickly grabs her bag
faith: it's what i did to him, all right?
scene direction: she puts it on the bed and starts to stuff her things into it.
buffy: and what was that? faith, you came here for a reason. i can help.
scene direction: faith looks up from packing
faith: you can mind your own business.
scene direction: faith points at herself
faith: *i'm* the one that can handle this.
buffy: yeah. you're a real bad-ass when it comes to packing.
scene direction: buffy gets a look from faith
buffy: what was that you said about my problem? gotta deal and move on? well, we have the 'moving on' part right here. what about dealing? is that just something you're gonna dump on me?
scene direction: faith finishes packing
faith: you don't know me. you don't know what i've been through. i'll take care of this, all right?
scene direction: faith heads for the door
buffy: like you took care of your watcher?
scene direction: this stops faith cold. she lets go of the doorknob and looks down sadly.
scene direction: a moment later she turns to buffy.
buffy: he killed her, didn't he?
scene direction: faith angrily
faith: they don't have a word for what he did to her.
scene direction: there's a knock at the door. faith looks through the peephole and sees that it's the manager, looking very strung out.
scene direction: faith sighs
faith: oh, what now?
buffy: faith, you run, he runs after you.
faith: that's where the head start comes in handy.
scene direction: she opens the door and sees kakistos standing behind the dead manager, holding him up. faith steps back into the room aghast. kakistos drops the manager's body and smiles at her.
kakistos: faith.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: faith's hotel room. kakistos roars and grabs faith by the neck. she grabs his wrist and tries to pull him off of her, but he is too strong.
faith: no!
scene direction: buffy rushes up between them, shoves faith back into the room, forcing kakistos to let go, and slams the door on his arm. he yells in anger and pain, and eventually has to pull his arm out. buffy slams the door shut, locks it and puts on the safety chain.
buffy: i just bought us a little more...
scene direction: kakistos punches through the door and tries to reach for buffy.
buffy: ...time!
scene direction: faith panics and screams
faith: no! nooooo!
buffy: scream later! escape now!
scene change: she runs for the bathroom dragging faith behind her. behind them kakistos kicks in the door. cut to the alley behind the hotel. the bathroom window gets kicked out, and faith scrambles through. buffy jumps through right behind her.
buffy: let's go!
scene direction: she takes faith's hand again, and they start to run. they reach a fork in the alley and take the left one. trick and his thugs reach the intersection a moment later. one of them follows the girls. trick signals for two of the others to double back while he and a fourth take the right fork. cut inside a warehouse. buffy comes crashing in through a window, and faith jumps in behind her. they scramble to their feet and see the vampire chasing them run right past.
buffy: we're okay.
scene direction: buffy faces faith
buffy: what happened?
scene direction: faith is too freaked out to think straight.
buffy: faith, what happened?
scene direction: faith frightened
faith: i... i was *there* when he killed my watcher, and i saw what he did to her... what he was gonna do to me. i tried to stop him, but i... i couldn't. and i ran.
scene direction: buffy breathing hard
buffy: faith, first rule of slaying: don't die. you did the right thing. okay? you didn't die. now you do the math. one of him, two of us.
scene direction: faith looks past buffy shaking her head
faith: no.
buffy: yes.
scene direction: faith getting panicky
faith: no.
scene direction: buffy turns around to see what she's looking at. there on the floor lie the bodies of the pizza man and others.
faith: this is his place.
buffy: he drove us here.
scene direction: one of the vampires appears at an entrance and growls at them. they begin to run through the warehouse. the vampire gives chase. two others come in the other side and try to head them off. buffy stops by a bucket, and putting her foot in, kicks it into one of the vampire's faces. he stumbles backward and over a chair. she does a full spinning hook kick to the other vampire and a side kick to another one behind her. he falls backwards over a table. buffy runs and jumps onto the table, log rolls over it and kicks him in the back as he tries to get back up. kakistos walks into the building, his one-eyed gaze fixed on faith. buffy rolls to a stand on the table. she picks up a crowbar and swings it baseball style at yet another vampire advancing towards her, hitting her squarely in the neck and knocking her down and out. she sees kakistos advancing on faith.
buffy: faith!
scene direction: buffy gets her attention
buffy: don't die!
scene direction: buffy throws her the crowbar
scene direction: faith catches the crowbar in mid-air, but before she can swing it at kakistos, he punches her hard and knocks her into a bunch of large wooden beams leaning against the wall. she hits the floor as the beams go tumbling. trick walks in calmly, nodding his head and observing the fight. buffy knife hands her attacker in the neck and throws him into an assisted front tuck off of the table. kakistos calmly steps up to faith as she scrambles up against the wall, cowering. he reaches down and grabs her by the shirt, picking her up off of the floor.
faith: no!
scene direction: once he has her up, he punches her squarely in the face. buffy is no longer on the table, and she roundhouse kicks over it, knocking the legs out from under a vampire standing on it. he rolls off of the table and onto his back, and buffy stakes him cleanly. she looks up at faith being whaled on by kakistos. behind her the unconscious vampire wakes.
scene direction: kakistos finally hits faith hard enough to knock her from his own grip onto the floor. he roars loudly. buffy jumps up and runs over to attack him. she roundhouse kicks him in the back of the knee, spins around and tries to backhand him in the face, but he blocks it. she spins around the other way and backhands him in the face. the now wakened vampire gets back up from the floor, and trick comes up behind her.
trick: if we don't do something, the master could get killed.
scene direction: he considers that for a moment, and decides that wouldn't be such a bad thing.
trick: well, our prayers are with him.
scene direction: he and the vampire turn to leave. buffy tries to stake kakistos, but the stake can't easily penetrate his thick hide, and so has no effect on him. he grabs buffy by the hair, lifts her and throws her back. trick and the vampire calmly continue on their way out.
trick: there's a reason these vengeance crusades are out of style. it's the modern vampire who sees the big picture.
scene direction: buffy backhands kakistos, landing a hard punch. he swings at her, but she ducks. she stands up and tries to stake him again, but even though the stake goes in deeper this time, it still has no effect on him. again he grabs her by the head and shoves her back into the wall. faith recovers from her daze, and sees him looming before her, but looking at buffy instead of at her.
kakistos: i guess you need a bigger stake, slayer!
scene direction: kakistos laughs maniacally
scene direction: faith sees that one of the fallen beams has a broken end. she lifts it up over her shoulder, and before kakistos can turn his attention back onto her she thrusts the beam through his chest and out his back. he looks down at it and back up at faith, and then explodes into ashes.
scene direction: buffy stares in amazement. faith heaves a few heavy breaths. buffy pulls the hair back from her face and steps over to faith, who looks around to make sure nothing else is about to attack. they both look down at the pile of ash left by kakistos.
buffy: you hungry?
faith: starved.
scene direction: they both head out of the building.
scene change: cut to sunnydale high school the next day. cut to the library. giles gets up from his desk and comes out to the table in the main room.
giles: the council has approved our request. faith is to stay here indefinitely.
scene direction: giles walks around the table
giles: i'm to look after you both until a new watcher is assigned.
scene direction: giles picks up some papers
scene direction: buffy is sitting on the table and willow is sitting in a chair.
buffy: good. she really came through in the end.
scene direction: buffy slides off of the table
buffy: she had a lot to deal with, but she did it. she got it behind her.
giles: i'm glad to hear it.
scene direction: giles looks over the papers
scene direction: buffy looks down at the table sadly and quietly for a long moment.
buffy: angel was cured.
scene direction: giles looks up
giles: i'm sorry?
buffy: when i killed him, angel was cured.
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: your spell worked at the last minute, will.
scene direction: buffy willow looks up, taking it all in
buffy: i was about to take him out, and, um... something went through him... and he was angel again. he-he didn't remember anything that he'd done. he just held me. um, but i-it was... it was too late, and i, i had to. so i, i told him that i loved him... and i kissed him... and i killed him.
scene direction: she looks down at the table again for another long moment. the others stay silent.
buffy: i don't know if that helps with your spell or not, giles.
giles: uh, yes, i, i believe it will.
scene direction: willow very sympathetically
willow: i'm sorry.
buffy: it's okay.
scene direction: buffy gives them a little smile
buffy: i've been holding on to that for so long. felt good to get it out.
scene direction: buffy pauses, then smiles thinly
buffy: i'll see you guys later.
scene direction: she walks out of the library while looking down at the floor. willow watches her friend go, contemplating the meaning of it all. giles eventually starts to go back to his office. as he walks around willow she gets up from her chair.
willow: giles, i know you don't like me playing with mystical forces, but i can really help with this binding spell.
giles: there is no spell.
scene direction: he starts toward his office again. willow begins to realize that he'd made the whole spell issue up to get buffy to talk and release her inner sorrow.
scene change: cut to the halls. scott comes out of a classroom. buffy is waiting behind the door for him, and steps out into the hall when she sees him pass by.
buffy: scott.
scene direction: scott stops
scott: uh, hello.
scene direction: scott pulls on his backpack
buffy: hey. uh, i was, um, i was waiting for you to get out of class.
scott: oh. um, why?
buffy: um... there was someone a while ago, and, uh, the ring sort of confused me. but i liked what you said about friendship.
scene direction: buffy begins to ramble
buffy: i liked it a lot. and buster keaton. big fun. and i'm capable of big fun even though there's no earthly way you could possibly know that about me. wow. if i knew i was gonna go on this long, i probably would've brought some water. uh,
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: what i'm trying to say is, um... if you would still like to go to the film festival--and i would understand it if you didn't--i'd pretty much love to go with you.
scene direction: scott looks around awkwardly
scott: uh... ahem.
scene direction: scott shrugs
scott: i don't know, buffy. i'm, i'm really gonna have to think about this.
scene direction: buffy nods in understanding. he starts down the hall for a few steps, stops and immediately comes back.
scott: okay. you know what, i thought about it, and i'm in. when do you want to go?
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: uh, well, i have one thing that i have to do tonight, and then i'm good.
scene direction: scott smiles
scott: good.
scene direction: buffy smiles back at him warmly.
scene change: cut to the mansion that night. cut inside to the great room where acathla stood. buffy slowly walks in from a side door to the spot where she slew angel. she looks down at the floor, and the tears begin to come. she slowly crouches down, and looks at her claddagh ring.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: goodbye.
scene direction: gently she places the ring on the floor. she reflects for a moment before standing back up, looking at the great hall around her. she turns around and slowly starts to walk away toward the main door. the camera shows her walking from a high angle, giving a good view of the cavernous room. when she's gone, the camera cuts to the ring. the picture fades to black.
scene direction: a moment later a bright beam of light illuminates the ring on the floor.
scene direction: it gets more and more intense, and the ring begins to vibrate, clinking madly against the marble. suddenly the room is awash with a blindingly bright white light emanating from a dimensional portal opening above the ring. a body falls through and hits the stone floor hard. the light fades as the portal closes, and a naked man is left lying there. he is unsteady as he tries to get up, but he is too weak to do more than lift his face. it is angel, looking very dazed. his breathing is shallow and labored, and he shivers violently as he looks up at the room around him 