scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: morning at sunnydale high school. willow and xander slowly walk together across the lawn toward the walkway to the main entrance. in their hands they have the results of their scholastic aptitude tests, with which neither is particularly happy.
willow: this is a nightmare. this is... my world is spinning.
xander: it's not that bad, willow, really.
willow: 740? verbal?! i'm-i'm...
scene direction: willow searches for a word
willow: pathetic!
scene direction: illiterate! i'm cletus, the slack-jawed yokel.
scene direction: xander shrugs
xander: that's right. and the fact that your 740 verbal closely resembles my combined scores in no way compromises your position as the village idiot.
scene direction: they fold up their score reports as they near a bench at the side of the walkway.
willow: i just...
scene direction: willow sits and slouches, depressed
willow: where did i go wrong?
scene direction: xander sits down next to her and puts his arm around her in comfort, but not missing the opportunity to give her hair a gentle stroke.
xander: you did amazing, willow. as usual.
scene direction: behind them oz and cordelia approach.
cordelia: you guys get your scores?
scene direction: xander instantly lets go of willow, hops to his feet and rushes to meet her.
xander: cordelia!
scene direction: xander points
xander: willow was very sad by her academic failure.
scene direction: xander reaches for cordelia's score report
xander: how did you do?
scene direction: he snags it from her hand, unfolds it and reads it.
xander: this is not good.
cordelia: what's not good?
scene direction: oz gives willow a reassuring stroke of her hair. she just sadly hands him her report to see.
xander: well, i'm just worried it may hurt my standing as campus stud when people find out i'm dating a brain.
scene direction: cordelia yanks her scores from his hand
cordelia: please. i have *some*
scene direction: experience in covering these things up.
scene direction: oz to willow
oz: well, i can see why you'd be upset.
scene direction: willow gives him a hurt look, grabs her report back from him and looks down at the ground, her feelings of failure evident in her furrowed brow.
oz: that was my sarcastic voice.
xander: you know, it sounds a lot like your regular voice.
oz: i've been told that.
scene direction: oz trying to be upbeat
oz: but we should celebrate, do something.
cordelia: like, the four of us?
scene direction: she gives xander a pointed look, shaking her head and clearly mouthing "no". he ignores her completely.
xander: a double date! it could have potential.
scene direction: buffy walks up the steps from the street, a long look on her face, and joins the gang.
scene direction: willow brightens and stands up
willow: buffy! hey! did you get your sat scores?
scene direction: buffy gives her a weak nod.
xander: by the look on your face, i'm guessing you and i are gonna be manning the drive-through window side by side.
buffy: they're just test scores, right?
scene direction: buffy hands hers to willow
buffy: what do they really mean, anyway?
scene direction: willow unfolds it and reads
scene direction: willow very excited
willow: 1430! buffy, you kicked ass!
scene direction: buffy raises her eyebrows at her friend. cordelia's eyes go wide with amazement.
scene direction: willow more calmly
willow: okay,
scene direction: willow folds the report
willow: so academic achievement gets me a little excited.
scene direction: buffy hands her scores to xander for him to see.
xander: buff, that's amazing.
cordelia: let me see that.
scene direction: she yanks it out of xander's hand before he can even begin to unfold it and checks it out.
oz: yeah. with scores like that, you can apply pretty much anywhere you want.
willow: buffy, this could, like, change your whole future.
scene direction: buffy unsure what to make of it
buffy: the thought had occurred to me.
xander: then why the sour puss?
buffy: i don't know. i guess... my future. i never really thought about it. i wasn't even sure i was going to have one.
scene direction: cordelia smiling hugely
cordelia: well, i think this is great! now you can leave and never come back!
scene direction: she gets looks from everyone. xander hands buffy back her scores.
cordelia: well, i mean that in a positive way. get out of sunnydale.
scene direction: that's a good thing. what kind of moron would ever wanna come back here?
scene change: cut to a small park and playground that night. a classic 1958 dodge desoto fireflite crashes through the 'welcome to sunnydale' sign and screeches to a halt. the door opens and a nearly empty liquor bottle falls out and smashes to pieces on the pavement. spike slides off of his seat and hits the street flat on his back on top of the broken glass, drunk out of his mind. he lifts his head unsteadily and tries to raise himself to his elbows.
spike: home, sweet...
scene direction: spike chuckles
spike: home.
scene direction: he passes out and collapses back to the pavement.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: spike's old burned-out factory. the place is a shambles, although the great table where giles started the fire is essentially intact, if scorched. spike strolls through the area, stepping over the strewn chairs, while singing a few bars from "my way".
spike: and more / much more than this / i did it my way cut to the bedroom in the basement. spike comes hopping merrily down the stairs.
spike: drusilla! i'm home!
scene direction: when he reaches the bottom he breaks out into a pathetic fit of giggles which quickly turn to sobs. he sniffs a few times and wipes his nose on his sleeve. he sees what's left of the burned bed and steps up to it, steadying himself on a pillar. in despair he tosses his liquor bottle onto the bed and steps around the column. from there he sees those members of drusilla's doll collection that didn't survive the fire piled on her dresser, all badly scorched. he reaches for one and picks it up.
scene direction: the features on its fine porcelain face can still be made out, but the paint, hair and dress are long gone. he stares at the doll intensely.
spike: why did you do it, baby? why did you leave me? we were happy here.
scene direction: he tries to suppress a sob and shakes it off, and suddenly he's wearing his game face. he roars at the doll angrily and throws it hard down at the concrete floor. he spins around, looking for something to smash it with. he finds a tall iron candlestick, grabs it and wields it back.
spike: you...
scene direction: spike swings the candlestick
spike: stupid...
scene direction: spike swings again
scene direction: worthless... (swings again) bitch! (calms a bit) look what you've done to me.
scene direction: he stares down at what's left of the doll, its delicate porcelain features smashed and scattered, limbs torn and singed. he drops the iron candlestick on top of it.
scene change: cut to cordelia's locker in the halls at school. she is getting what she needs for class while xander tries to talk her into the double date thing.
xander: c'mon. it'll be fun!
cordelia: i don't know. i just thought we were gonna do something... you know, classy?
xander: what's classier than bowling?
scene direction: cordelia raises her eyebrows at him
cordelia: apart from everything ever?
scene direction: let's see...
xander: oz and willow are down. you're the swing vote.
scene direction: xander skips around to her other side
xander: i guarantee fun.
scene direction: cordelia can't help but give him a warm smile and giggle. from his new vantage point xander can now see the inside of her locker door.
xander: hey, those are from the pier.
scene direction: there are three pictures of them. one of the two of them sitting on a bench with their arms around each other and smiling, another of just xander sporting a huge smile, and the third of her riding on xander's back, smiling playfully with her arms wrapped tightly around his neck.
cordelia: yeah. uh, i just got them developed.
scene direction: xander not yet sure what to make of it
xander: there's pictures. of me. in your locker. i never knew i was locker door material.
scene direction: she closes her locker, and they begin walking down the hall.
cordelia: well... just barely. besides,
scene direction: cordelia smiles
cordelia: i look really cute in those pictures.
scene direction: they meet oz and willow coming the other way.
oz: hey. so what's the verdict? do we bowl?
scene direction: xander gives cordelia a pleading look.
scene direction: cordelia gives in
cordelia: we bowl.
willow: great! double bowling date.
scene direction: willow pats oz's chest
willow: i'm on oz's team.
xander: yeah? well,
scene direction: xander points at oz
xander: prepare to be crushed.
scene direction: xander takes cordelia's arm
xander: maybe we should practice.
scene direction: cordelia nods
cordelia: yeah.
scene direction: they go their separate ways again. oz goes with willow to her locker.
willow: they don't stand a chance. i'm really good. or i used to be,
scene direction: willow works her combination
willow: when they had the inflatable things in the gutters.
scene direction: she opens her locker door as oz holds up something small wrapped in newspaper. she faces him and notices him holding it up to her.
willow: what's this?
scene direction: willow takes it
oz: it's a gift.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: what's the occasion?
scene direction: willow unwraps it
oz: pretty much *you* are.
scene direction: wrapped in the paper is a pez candy dispenser with a green witch's head on top, complete with red hair and black hat. willow is very surprised and gives oz a none-too-gentle slap on the left side of his chest.
scene direction: willow excited
willow: it's a little, uh, pez witch!
oz: it's kind of a theme present. do you like it?
scene direction: willow breathless
willow: i like... i-i *more* than like. oz, this is probably the sweetest... we have to find a little pez werewolf, so little pez witch can have a boyfriend.
oz: i don't think they make a werewolf pez. you might have to settle for a wacky cartoon dog.
willow: this is... just so thoughtful.
oz: well, i think about you.
scene direction: willow suddenly disappointed
willow: oh... i don't have anything to give you.
scene direction: oz smiles at her
oz: yeah, you do.
scene direction: he puts his hand on her shoulder briefly and then heads down the hall to class. willow follows him with her gaze for a moment, her expression showing her worry about the levels of complexity this just added to her life. she looks down at the pez dispenser.
scene change: cut to the library. giles looks over buffy's sat score report while she plays with a contraption from giles' huge pile of camping equipment and clothing laid out on the big table.
giles: buffy, this is, this is remarkable.
buffy: so is this.
scene direction: buffy puts the thing down
buffy: where is this retreat thingy, the yukon?
scene direction: buffy reaches for something else
giles: it's quite nearby, actually.
scene direction: giles buffy finds a compass
giles: it's, um, it's the clearing at the top of breaker's woods.
scene direction: buffy opens the compass and sees that there is a mirror inside the lid.
scene direction: she quickly checks her hair.
giles: it's the site of some fascinating druidic rituals.
scene direction: buffy closes the compass
buffy: okay, but you're just going for a few days, right?
scene direction: buffy giles takes the compass from her
buffy: i mean, you're not gonna settle there and grow crops or anything.
scene direction: giles confused
giles: what? oh, my gear. no, no, this is, this is basic necessities.
buffy: giles, you pack like me.
scene direction: giles gives her a little smile
giles: here.
scene direction: giles hands buffy her scores
giles: i suspect your mother will want to, uh, put it on the refrigerator.
scene direction: buffy puts the report away
buffy: yeah. she saw these scores, and her head spun around and exploded.
scene direction: giles unsure what she meant
giles: i-i've been on the hellmouth too long.
scene direction: that was metaphorical, yes?
buffy: yes. she was happy.
scene direction: giles smiles in relief, and goes over to the cage.
buffy: she started with all this crazy talk about me going to college, maybe someplace else.
scene direction: inside the cage giles pauses from pulling down a book.
buffy: i know. i know, i said that you were gonna have a goat. responsibilities and all. i know the drill.
giles: she may be right.
scene direction: giles comes back out of the cage
buffy: yeah, i know, i figured you'd...
scene direction: she gives giles a bewildered look.
buffy: okay. be kind, rewind.
giles: with scores like these, buffy, you could have a first-rate education. i'm, i'm not suggesting that you... ignore your calling, but, um... you need to look to your future.
scene direction: giles goes back to the table
giles: and with faith here, i-i-it may be that you can
scene direction: giles draws a breath
giles: move on. for a-a time, at least.
scene direction: giles packs the book
scene direction: buffy unsure how to react
buffy: wow.
giles: well, let's, um, let's discuss it when i get back. i-in the meantime, um, i'd like you to continue training while i'm, while i'm gone, and, um, please don't do anything rash.
buffy: 'anything rash', meaning...
scene direction: giles hesitates for an instant
giles: are you planning on seeing angel?
buffy: yes. actually, i am.
scene direction: buffy giles averts his eyes
buffy: look, but there's not gonna be any rash.
scene direction: buffy realizes how that sounds and gets a look from giles
buffy: anywhere.
scene direction: buffy defensively
buffy: okay. we're, we're friends. that's all either of us wants.
scene direction: buffy looks at giles seriously
buffy: nothing's gonna happen.
scene direction: cut outside. willow and xander come walking around the corner from the colonnade and through the breezeway.
willow: something's gonna happen.
xander: like what?
willow: uh! it's a mistake! it's a terrible, fatal mistake. i see that now.
xander: it's just bowling.
scene direction: they turn down a covered walkway.
willow: it's *bad* bowling. i-it's a double date, with all of us, and they're gonna know!
xander: how are they gonna know?
willow: it's a very intimate situation. it's all sexy with the smoke and the sweating and the shoe rental...
xander: you're turned on by rented shoes?
willow: that's not the issue.
scene direction: they stop walking, and xander faces her.
xander: okay, well, let me ask you this: what are they gonna know? that we're friends. old, old friends. and maybe we've had one or two indiscretions, but that's all past. look. we're just very good friends who like to hang out, and can i kiss your earlobe?
willow: no! well, okay.
scene direction: willow jerks away
willow: no!
scene direction: willow holds up the dispenser
willow: pez!
scene direction: they both pause for a moment to calm down and think.
xander: maybe bowling might be too much to handle. man!
scene direction: xander strokes her hair
xander: i wish i wasn't so attracted to you.
scene direction: xander takes a deep breath
xander: i wish we could make it all stop.
willow: any suggestions?
scene change: cut to the kitchen at buffy's house. she is making microwave popcorn.
scene direction: her mother has her hands full of college brochures.
joyce: carnegie mellon has a wonderful design curriculum. oh, and brown university's history program is... you like history, right?
buffy: could we talk about this another time?
scene direction: buffy gets a large bowl
buffy: all day it's been like, 'congratulations! go away.'
scene direction: buffy takes the bowl to the island
joyce: that's not it. it's just you belong at a, a good old-fashioned college with, with keg parties and boys, not here with hellmouths and vampires.
scene direction: the microwave beeps.
buffy: not really seeing the distinction.
scene direction: she goes to get the bag of popcorn.
joyce: y'know, you're always talking about how you wish you could lead a more normal life. well, this is your chance!
buffy: yeah, it's just not that simple.
scene direction: buffy takes the popcorn to the bowl
buffy: i have responsibilities.
scene direction: buffy opens the bag
joyce: i know, i know, but i spoke with mr. giles, and he said...
buffy: ...that faith could be miss sunnydale in the slayer pageant. i know.
scene direction: buffy dumps the popcorn into the bowl
joyce: it's time to think about your future, buffy, about your whole life. i mean, honestly, is there anything keeping you here?
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. he's sitting by the fireplace quietly reading "la nausea", by jean paul sartre. spike spies on him, peering in between the boards that have been haphazardly nailed across the destroyed doorway to the atrium. finally angel closes his book, gets up and walks into a rear hallway. spike gives him a drunken humph.
scene direction: spike slurred
spike: yeah, you. you think i'm afraid of you?
scene direction: he steps back from the boards, swaying unsteadily.
spike: we were happy! you brainwashed her. i could just...
scene direction: he looks at his bottle and takes a long drink. when it's empty he tosses it aside in a huff.
spike: yeah, i'll show *you* who's a cool guy.
scene direction: spike starts to leave
spike: you're goin' down.
scene direction: in his drunkenness he trips over one of the flower beds, falls into it and passes out.
scene change: cut to dawn. the first red rays of the sun appear over the hills and shine into the atrium. spike lies in shadow, but his left hand is extended away from his body, and a beam of light nears it as the sun rises. soon his hand is fully exposed to the light and it begins to smoke. a couple of seconds later it bursts into flame. the new light source shines into spike's face, and he wakes and sees his hand aflame.
spike: whoa!
scene direction: he leaps to his feet and runs over to the fountain, screaming all the way. he holds his hands under it, but it's going at just a trickle.
scene direction: quickly he bends down and jams his hand into the pool of water at its base, dousing the flames. no sooner is that problem gone than he realizes he's standing in shaded but direct sunlight, and he's beginning to smoke elsewhere. he pulls at his heavy overcoat, trying to shade his face, as he scrambles up the stairs and out of the atrium.
scene change: cut to inside spike's car. the rear driver's side door whips open and spike dives in, right on top of a huge pile of empty beer cans, liquor bottles and other trash. he quickly slams the door shut and grabs a bottle from the front seat. he pulls the cork out with his teeth and pours a generous splash over his burned hand. he grunts loudly in pain and takes a good drink. the immediate emergency taken care of, he relaxes a bit and tries to catch his breath.
spike: this is just too much.
scene change: cut to a small magic shop. the shopkeeper hears the rear door close and goes to investigate. there she finds spike looking through one of her books.
shopkeeper: did you come in through the back?
spike: yeah. i need a curse.
shopkeeper: a what?
scene direction: spike exasperated
spike: a curse! y'know, something nasty. boils. i wanna give him boils all over his face. you know, dripping pustules. let's really go for the gusto here.
shopkeeper: i'm hearing a lot of negative energy, and i bet...
scene direction: spike interrupts
spike: leprosy! alright, a spell that makes his parts fall off. that sounds proper.
shopkeeper: we don't carry...
scene direction: shopkeeper the front door chimes
shopkeeper: leprosy.
scene direction: she turns to see willow come in through the front door.
shopkeeper: would you excuse me a moment?
scene direction: she goes to help her new customer.
shopkeeper: blessed be. anything in particular i can help you find?
willow: yeah.
scene direction: willow holds up her notepad
willow: it's all here on the list.
scene direction: willow reads down the list
willow: skink root, essence of rose thorn, canary feathers...
shopkeeper: aha!
scene direction: shopkeeper smiles
shopkeeper: a love spell. want that old lover to come back to you?
scene direction: shopkeeper spike is suddenly interested in their conversation
shopkeeper: are you sure you know what you're doing, hon?
scene direction: willow flustered
willow: no. oh, i mean, yes! i... i know how to do a love spell, but this is more of an anti-love spell. yeah. uh, kind of a de- lusting. the supplies are basically the same, right?
scene direction: shopkeeper smiles
shopkeeper: basically.
scene direction: shopkeeper starts to gather things
shopkeeper: although raven feathers tend to breed a little more discontent than canary. let me just get some things...
scene direction: she gathers some bags of herbs, jars of root powders, a feather and whatever else and brings them all to the counter. spike watches intently from behind the bookcase.
shopkeeper: okay. mm-hmm.
scene direction: shopkeeper adds it up
shopkeeper: that'll be $15.80 for the lot.
scene direction: she bags it all while willow pulls out her money.
willow: thanks!
scene direction: she takes the bag and leaves. the shopkeeper turns her attention back to spike and walks back to where she left him.
scene direction: shopkeeper smiling
shopkeeper: so, did you find a spell book?
scene direction: spike jumps out from behind the bookcase all vamped out and grabs her around the neck. the shopkeeper gasps in fright, but can't bring herself to scream.
spike: forget the book.
scene direction: he leans in for the bite, and they collapse to the floor. when he's sucked her dry he looks back up at the door where he saw willow go.
spike: i just got a better idea.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene change: sunnydale city hall. cut to the mayor's office. the camera is low to the floor. mayor wilkins is practicing his putting in the company of his assistant allan. he taps the ball, and it comes at the camera in a nearly perfect straight line, just missing its target.
mayor wilkins: oh, look at that! every time, cuts to the left.
scene direction: he gets down on his hands and knees to check the lie of the floor.
mayor wilkins: see, and it's not the carpet. it's me.
scene direction: mayor wilkins gets up to retrieve his ball
mayor wilkins: i swear, i would sell my soul for a decent short game.
scene direction: mayor wilkins drops the ball for another try
mayor wilkins: of course,
scene direction: mayor wilkins chuckles
mayor wilkins: it's a little late for that.
scene direction: mayor wilkins chuckles
scene direction: mayor wilkins to allan
mayor wilkins: i don't suppose i could offer *your* soul, huh? really help me on the green.
scene direction: allan gives him a shocked look.
mayor wilkins: i'm just funning. so, we have a spike problem, do we?
scene direction: mayor wilkins takes another shot
allan: he's been spotted back in town.
scene direction: the mayor's shot is on target this time, but comes up short. he lets out a frustrated sigh and goes to retrieve his ball.
allan: and there was an incident at a magic shop in broad daylight.
scene direction: police had a hell of a time covering it up.
scene direction: mayor wilkins drops the ball
scene direction: mayor wilkins laughs
mayor wilkins: well, yes, y'know, he was up to all sorts of shenanigans last year. we had a world of fun trying to guess what he'd do next.
allan: i remember.
scene direction: allan leans against the mayor's desk
scene direction: the mayor whistles at allan, who immediately stands back up.
mayor wilkins: but i guess we're past that now. this year is too important to let a loose cannon rock the boat.
allan: should i have mr. trick send a... committee to deal with this?
mayor wilkins: loose cannon. rock the boat. is that a mixed metaphor?
scene direction: allan confused
allan: uh...
scene direction: mayor wilkins musing out loud
mayor wilkins: boats did have cannons. and a loose one would cause it to rock. oh, honestly. i don't know where my mind goes these days.
scene direction: mayor wilkins chuckles
mayor wilkins: why don't you take care of that spike problem? a committee, like you said.
allan: as good as done.
scene direction: allan leaves the office
mayor wilkins: that's swell. fore!
scene direction: he takes another shot, and this one is directly on target. he spreads his arms, elated.
mayor wilkins: hey!
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. he places another log on the fire. buffy is on the couch with a pile of brochures on her lap.
angel: college, huh?
buffy: higher education. kind of an intense proposition.
angel: where do you wanna go?
scene direction: angel slowly comes over to her
scene direction: buffy closes her brochure
buffy: i have no idea. my mom was the one that got all these. she's so excited, she can't stop talking about it.
scene direction: buffy angel sits across from her
buffy: i had a really hard time coming up with an alibi so i could come over here.
angel: she doesn't know about me.
buffy: big no. she's having enough trouble dealing with the slayer issue. i don't think she's ready to process the information that... you and i are friends again. anyway, i think this college jones is just a reaction to the whole slayer thing.
angel: she wants you to get out.
buffy: someplace a little less hellmouthy.
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: she has a point.
scene direction: buffy draws a breath
buffy: y'know, but there are reasons to stay, too.
angel: what are they?
scene direction: buffy taken aback
buffy: um... you know, there's my slayer duties, obviously. what do you think i should do?
angel: as a friend, i...
scene direction: angel stands up
angel: i think that you should leave.
scene direction: angel goes to the fireplace
angel: this is a good opportunity for you.
scene direction: he leans against the cold stone, facing away from her. buffy gets up to gather her brochures.
buffy: yeah. it's not like there's any great thing keeping me here.
scene direction: she stuffs them into her bag. angel turns around when he hears the papers rustling. buffy zips her bag closed and pulls it onto her shoulder.
buffy: thanks for the advice. it's another perspective to consider.
angel: where are you going? you just got here. it's early.
buffy: yeah, well, my mom starts worrying a lot earlier these days.
scene direction: i'll stop by soon.
scene direction: she leaves without looking back. angel watches until she's gone.
scene change: cut to the science room at school. it's dark. willow is grinding the ingredients for the anti-love spell in a ceramic bowl. xander walks into the dark room and heads toward willow.
xander: whoa! it smells like church in here.
scene direction: xander sniffs
xander: no, wait... evil church.
willow: it's just chemistry stuff. an experiment.
xander: so you said when you called. why do i have to be here?
willow: it'll help you on the exam. you're way behind.
xander: but that's why you love me, right?
scene direction: xander bobs his head
xander: academically dangerous?
scene direction: willow ignores his comment
willow: here.
scene direction: willow hands him a raven feather
willow: hold this.
xander: a feather. and who will i be tickling?
scene direction: he runs it along willow's check, and for a moment she enjoys it and giggles, but her rational mind quickly takes over and she gruffly nudges his hand aside.
scene direction: willow warningly
willow: shush.
scene direction: xander isn't too happy about that, but knows it has to be that way.
scene direction: willow checks her spell book.
willow: okay. bring mixture to a boil...
scene direction: she lights the bunsen burner below a flask of liquid.
xander: i assume this isn't going to make us late for our evening of bowling magic?
scene direction: willow jerks up
willow: there's no magic! i mean, bowling, yeah. cordelia and oz are gonna meet us here later.
xander: can we turn these lights on?
scene direction: he notices something familiar about the book willow is working from and steps around her to get a better look.
xander: is that a spell book?
scene direction: willow tries to obscure it with her hand
willow: no, no, no! chemistry book.
xander: wait a minute. this is love spell stuff! you're doing a love spell?
willow: no! of course not! this is a purely scientific...
scene direction: xander picks the book up and shows her its title - "witchcraft".
willow: ...de-lusting spell... for us. i thought it would go better if you didn't know.
scene direction: xander raises his voice
xander: are you nuts, or have you forgotten that i tend to have bad luck with these sorts of spells?
scene direction: willow raises hers back
willow: but you said you wished that these feelings could just go away.
xander: yeah, i wish for a *lot* of things! i told you i wished i was a fireman when we were in sixth grade, but you didn't follow through on that!
willow: i can't do this anymore, xander! i mean, this whole 'us' thing is... bleagh!
xander: so, do you really need to resort to the black arts to keep our hormones in check?
scene direction: willow calmly
willow: at this point, i'm thinking 'no'.
xander: i'm gonna get the lights,
scene direction: xander walks
xander: clean this place up before they get here
scene direction: xander clicks them on
xander: and start asking questions.
scene direction: spike walks into the room behind him and grabs him around the neck.
willow: xander!
scene direction: spike starts to choke xander, who struggles hard, but can't get free.
spike: i need to borrow the little girl. you don't mind, do you?
scene direction: xander kicks out with his legs against the wall, and shoves spike and himself across the room and into a metal shelf. spike isn't fazed, and throws xander aside to the floor. he tries to get up, but spike punches him hard. willow grabs a microscope and comes at spike with it. he stops her in mid-swing.
spike: threatening me? that's not nice.
scene direction: spike xander gets back up
spike: we're all gonna be very best friends.
scene direction: he yanks the microscope from willow's grips and swings it around into xander's temple. the boy goes down, out cold.
willow: xander!
scene change: cut to spike's factory. xander is laid out on what's left of drusilla's bed. willow nervously sits on the edge, fidgeting with her hands. spike dumps a box full of supplies on the bed next to xander.
spike: a spell. for me. you're gonna do a spell for me.
willow: uh, what kind of spell?
spike: a *love* spell! are you brain dead?
scene direction: spike goes to the dresser
spike: i'm gonna get what's mine.
scene direction: spike grabs a bottle
spike: what's mine.
scene direction: spike uncorks it
spike: teach her to walk out on me.
scene direction: he takes several good swallows, then looks over at willow.
spike: what are you staring at?
scene direction: willow averts her eyes
willow: nothing.
spike: you can do it, right? you can make dru love me again? make her crawl!
willow: i-i can try.
scene direction: spike grabs her neck
spike: what are you talking about, trying? you'll do it!
willow: yes, i'll do it!
scene direction: he lets go of her and breaks his bottle against a bedpost. he grabs her again and threatens her with the sharp edges.
spike: you lie to me, and i'll shove this through your face! you want that?
scene direction: willow terrified
willow: no...
spike: right through to your brain!
willow: no, please, no...
scene direction: he shoves her aside and leans against the bedpost, calming down.
spike: she wouldn't even kill me.
scene direction: he drops the broken bottle, walks around willow and sits down next to her.
spike: she just left. she didn't even care enough to cut off my head or set me on fire.
scene direction: spike sniffs
spike: i mean, is that too much to ask? you know? some little sign that she cared?
scene direction: he pauses for a moment to inhale and exhale deeply.
spike: it was that truce with buffy that did it. dru said i'd gone soft. wasn't demon enough for the likes of her. and i told her it didn't mean anything, i was thinking of her the whole time, but she didn't care. so, we got to brazil, and she was... she was just different. i gave her everything: beautiful jewels, beautiful dresses with beautiful girls in them, but nothing made her happy. and she would fliiirt!
scene direction: spike sniffs
spike: i caught her on a park bench, making out with a *chaos* demon!
scene direction: have you ever seen a chaos demon? they're all slime and antlers. they're disgusting.
scene direction: he looks at willow's pretty young face and strokes her silky auburn hair.
spike: she only did it to hurt me.
scene direction: spike he takes his hand off of her
spike: so i said, 'i'm not putting up with this anymore.' and she said, 'fine!' and i said, 'yeah, i've got an unlife, you know!' and then she said... she said we could still be friends.
scene direction: spike leans over and sobs on willow's shoulder
spike: god, i'm so unhappy!
scene direction: willow tentatively pats his knee
willow: there, there.
spike: i mean, friends! how could she be so cruel?
scene direction: he raises his head and looks at her neck.
spike: mmm. that smell... your neck...
scene direction: he leans in to take a better whiff and then leans back, now in his game face.
spike: i haven't had a woman in weeks.
scene direction: willow looks at him and jumps up in fright.
willow: whoa! no! hold it!
spike: well, unless you count that shopkeeper.
scene direction: spike stands up
scene direction: willow panting with fright
willow: now, now, hold on! i-i'll do your spell for you, and, and, and i'll get you drusilla back, but, but there will be no bottle-in-face, and there will be no 'having' of any kind with me.
scene direction: alright?
scene direction: he grabs her by the neck and bends her over, but makes no move to bite her. instead he reverts to his human guise.
spike: alright.
scene direction: spike pushes her away
spike: get started.
scene direction: willow steps around the bed to where spike dumped the box of supplies.
willow: now, i'm not a real witch, you know. i-i don't know if this is gonna work right away.
spike: well, if at first you don't succeed, i'll kill him
scene direction: spike indicates xander
spike:  and you try again.
scene direction: willow looks through the supplies
willow: this isn't enough.
spike: what?
scene direction: spike comes toward her
scene direction: willow nervously
willow: well, there are other ingredients, a-and a-a-a book. i need a, a spell book. this isn't it.
spike: you've got one, though, at home?
willow: not at home. i left it somewhere.
scene direction: spike gets in her face
spike: where?
scene change: cut to the library. buffy is skipping rope. suddenly oz and cordelia come storming in. buffy drops her rope and goes to meet them.
cordelia: thank god you are here.
buffy: yeah! not all of us have dates tonight.
oz: something's up.
scene change: cut to the science room. the three of them come in and look at the mess.
cordelia: we were supposed to meet in here. i don't know what could have happened.
scene direction: buffy finds willow's botched experiment.
buffy: what is all this stuff? i'm thinking weird science.
cordelia: was willow messing with her magic tricks again? maybe they disappeared. maybe she turned xander into something ishy!
scene direction: buffy looks around
buffy: whatever happened, there was obviously a fight.
oz: i don't see any blood.
buffy: yeah, either they were taken, or they ran, or maybe...
scene direction: cordelia points
cordelia: you're having too many ors! pick one!
buffy: i don't know. i need you guys to find giles, okay? i'm gonna look for them. maybe they didn't get too far.
cordelia: where is giles?
buffy: uh, he's at a retreat in the clearing in breaker's woods.
oz: yeah, i know the spot, but it's like a forty-five minute drive.
buffy: so motor!
scene direction: they all go on their respective missions.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy strides in and heads straight for the cage and the weapons cabinet within. she is interrupted by the phone, and rushes over to the counter to answer it.
buffy: giles?
scene direction: joyce through the phone
joyce: hi, buffy. you still working out?
buffy: uh, no, mom, actually...
joyce: i was hoping that we could schedule a college talk later tonight. i admit i...
scene direction: joyce cut to her in the kitchen
joyce: overreacted before. you don't have to go all the way across the country.
scene direction: joyce sits at the island
joyce: i, um, picked up some brochures from some nearby schools, okay?
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: that's great, but now's really not a good time...
scene direction: spike through the phone
spike: hello, joyce.
scene direction: buffy's eyes widen with recognition.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. joyce looks behind her and sees spike standing in the doorway.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy's expression turns to horror when she realizes that it's spike. she drops the phone and runs from the library as only a slayer can.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the kitchen at the summers house. joyce picks up the teakettle from the stove and takes it over to the island, where she pours some into a cup for spike to make hot chocolate.
spike: so i'm strolling through the park, looking for a meal, and i happen to walk by, and she's making out with the chaos demon! and so i said, 'you know, i don't have to put up with this.' and she said, 'fine!' so i said, 'fine, do whatever you like!' i mean, i thought we were going to make up, you know.
scene direction: joyce sits across from him
joyce: well, she sounds very unreasonable.
spike: she is. she's out of her mind.
scene direction: spike sniffs
spike: that's what i miss most about her.
scene direction: spike smiles
joyce: well, spike, sometimes even when two people seem right for each other, their lives just take different paths. when buffy's father and i...
scene direction: spike interrupts
spike: no, this is different. our love was eternal. literally.
scene direction: spike calms down
spike: you got any of those little marshmallows?
joyce: well, lemme look.
scene direction: she gets up to go check.
scene direction: cut outside. angel comes strolling through the neighborhood. he pauses to glance up into buffy's house, and through the open door sees spike sitting there with joyce. instantly he makes a dead run for the door, jumps the porch railing and tries to go in, but is surprised to find himself thrown back. joyce is startled out of her seat, and she takes a few steps away. angel growls at spike in extreme anger.
angel: spike.
joyce: oh, my god. get out of here!
scene direction: spike gets up behind joyce, smiling
spike: yeah. you're not invited.
joyce: he's crazy. he'll kill us.
spike: not while i breathe. well, actually, i don't breathe.
scene direction: spike taunts angel
angel: joyce, listen to me.
joyce: you get out of this house, or i will stake you myself.
spike: you're a very bad man.
scene direction: angel seething with anger
angel: joyce, you can't trust him. invite me in.
scene direction: spike makes like he's going to bite joyce.
angel: you touch her, and i'll cut your head off!
spike: yeah? you and what army?
scene direction: buffy comes up behind him.
buffy: that would be me.
scene direction: she knocks spike onto his back on the island and keeps him pinned there by the throat.
buffy: angel, why don't you come on in?
scene direction: he steps in, and joyce begins to panic.
joyce: oh! oh, no!
scene direction: she walks around to the far side of the island.
buffy: you shouldn't have come back, spike.
spike: i do what i please.
joyce: okay, i-i'm confused again.
scene direction: spike makes a grab for buffy's arm. angel takes spike's arm, yanks it off of buffy and pins it to the island. buffy grabs a wooden stirring spoon and makes a move to stake him.
spike: willow!
scene direction: buffy stays her thrust
buffy: you took willow.
spike: you do me now, you'll never find the little witch.
scene direction: joyce confused
joyce: willow's a witch?
buffy: and xander?
spike: him, too.
joyce: what, xander's a witch? i...
scene direction: angel grabs spike by the coat and lifts him off of the island.
angel: where are they?
scene direction: spike shoves angel off
spike: doesn't work like that, peaches. and when did you become all soul-having again? i thought you outgrew that.
scene direction: spike to buffy
spike: your friend's gonna work a little magic for me. she does my spell, i let them both go.
buffy: you're not famous for keeping your promises, spike.
spike: well, you and your great poof here wanna tag along, that's fine. but you get in my way, and *you* kill your friends.
scene change: cut to oz's van. he speeds along the road to breaker's woods.
cordelia: what if they were kidnapped by colombian drug lords? they could be cutting off xander's ear right now! or other parts.
scene direction: oz sniffs the air and stops the van.
cordelia: hello?
scene direction: oz sniffs the air some more.
oz: it's willow. she's nearby.
cordelia: what? you can smell her? she doesn't even wear perfume.
oz: she's afraid.
scene direction: he puts the van in reverse and backs up a bit.
cordelia: oh, my god. is this some sort of residual werewolf thing?
scene direction: this is very disturbing.
oz: i really agree.
scene direction: he puts the van in drive and turns down a side street.
scene change: cut to an alleyway. buffy, angel and spike come walking out.
spike: look, i just need a few supplies, and then i'll take you to...
scene direction: spike stops and grabs his head
spike: oh, god.
buffy: what's wrong? not that i care.
spike: oh... my head. i think i'm sobering up. it's horrible.
scene direction: spike bends over
spike: oh, god. i wish i was dead.
scene direction: buffy pulls out a stake
buffy: well, if you close your eyes and wish real hard...
scene direction: spike straightens up
spike: hey! back off!
scene direction: angel gets between them
angel: buffy, we still need him to find the others.
scene direction: buffy lowers her stake
buffy: need him? he's probably just got them locked up in the factory.
spike: well, hey, how thick do you think i am?
buffy: fine. can we just get this over with?
scene direction: she starts down the road. spike and angel follow close behind. when they reach a corner, spike has a flashback when he recognizes a bench.
spike: oh, god.
angel: now what?
spike: we killed a homeless man on this bench. me and dru. those were good times.
scene direction: he steps over to the bench and sits on it.
scene direction: spike chuckles
spike: you know, he begged for mercy, and you know, that only made her bite harder.
scene direction: he looks to buffy and angel for a reaction, but they just stare back blankly.
buffy: i guess you had to be there.
scene direction: she continues on her way.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. buffy kicks the door open and they walk in. there is yellow police tape stretched across the room, separating the counter and the shelves of merchandise from the entry area.
buffy: your work?
scene direction: she yanks down the police tape and tosses it aside.
spike: here's your list.
scene direction: spike hands it to buffy
scene direction: buffy reads
buffy: 'essence of violet, cloves...' angel?
angel: right.
scene direction: angel starts to look
buffy: 'set of runic tablets.' spike can get the rat's eyes.
scene direction: she and spike also start looking for ingredients.
spike: i used to bring her rats. with the morning paper.
buffy: great. more moping. that's gonna get her back.
spike: the spell's gonna get her back.
angel: lot of trouble for somebody who doesn't even care about you.
spike: shut your gob!
angel: she really is just kind of fickle.
spike: shut up!
scene direction: he runs at angel, turns him around and punches him in the face. angel grabs his arm in mid-swing before he can do it again. buffy grabs him from behind, and between her and angel, spike gets thrown back, though he manages to keep his footing.
scene direction: spike yells
spike: what do you know? it's your fault, the both of you! she belongs with me.
scene direction: spike sobs
spike: i'm nothing without her.
buffy: that i'll have to agree with. you're pathetic, you know that? you're not even a loser anymore, you're a shell of a loser.
spike: yeah. you're one to talk.
scene direction: spike goes back to looking for stuff
buffy: meaning?
scene direction: spike faces them
spike: the last time i looked in on you two, you were fighting to the death. now you're back making googly-eyes at each other like nothing happened. makes me want to heave.
scene direction: spike turns away
buffy: i don't know what you're talking about.
spike: oh, yeah. you're just friends.
angel: that's right.
scene direction: spike faces them
spike: you're *not* friends. you'll never be friends. you'll be in love till it kills you both. you'll fight, and you'll shag, and you'll hate each other till it makes you quiver, but you'll never be friends.
scene direction: spike points at his temple
spike: love isn't brains, children, it's blood...
scene direction: spike clasps his chest
spike: blood screaming inside you to work its will.
scene direction: neither buffy nor angel want to hear this.
spike: *i* may be love's bitch, but at least *i'm* man enough to admit it.
scene direction: he turns his attention back to finding willow's ingredients. buffy's eyes almost meet angel's, but she quickly averts them. spike spots what he's looking for.
spike: hmm!
scene direction: spike grabs the bottle
spike: eye of rat.
scene change: cut to the basement at spike's factory. willow is pounding against the door with her shoulder, letting out a good grunt each time. after several hits, she hears xander moan below. she comes down to the bed to check on him. the side of his head is covered in dried blood.
willow: xander?
scene direction: willow sits on the bed
willow: are you okay?
scene direction: he tries to sit up.
xander: dizzy.
scene direction: xander winces
xander: kind of nauseous, too. do i remember having a fight with spike?
willow: you do.
scene direction: he feels the caked blood on the side of his face.
xander: i won, right? kicked his ass?
willow: you were real brave. do you need to barf?
xander: no, i'll be okay.
scene direction: xander looks around
xander: where are we?
willow: the factory. we're locked in the basement.
xander: that burnt-out place in the middle of nowhere? so we're pretty much in a 'scream all you want' scenario.
willow: pretty much.
xander: why didn't he just kill us?
willow: he-he wants me to do a love spell.
xander: what?
willow: drusilla broke up with him.
xander: gee, and we had all hoped those crazy kids would make it work.
willow: he's out of control. i mean, not that he was joe restraint in the old days.
scene direction: xander tries again to sit up
xander: so what are our options?
scene direction: xander winces
willow: well, i figure either... i refuse to do the spell and he kills us, or i do the spell and he kills us.
xander: give me a third option.
willow: he's so drunk he forgets about us, and we starve to death.
scene direction: that's sort of the best one.
xander: will, we're not gonna die.
scene direction: xander tries to get up, willow helps
xander: if he's so drunk, he'll get sloppy, and then i'll make my move.
scene direction: xander they collapse back onto the bed
xander: as long as my move doesn't involve standing up or using my limbs, we'll be okay.
scene direction: their fall put them very close to each other, and the temptation to kiss is strong.
willow: we're not supposed to.
xander: exemption for impending death situation.
scene direction: willow goes along with that, and they kiss. xander reaches his arm around her as he lies back. she puts her arm around his shoulder to hold him close. behind them oz and cordelia come down the stairs.
cordelia: oh, god!
scene direction: willow immediately rolls off of xander, and they see them there.
xander: oh, god.
willow: oh, god, oz...
oz: we have to get outta here.
scene direction: cordelia is heartbroken, and runs up the stairs.
scene direction: xander gets up
xander: cordy, i...
scene direction: when she gets just over half-way up, the charred stairs give beneath her running feet, and she falls into the space below, onto a rubble pile of old concrete and rebar. forgetting his pain, xander scrambles up the steps, followed closely by oz and willow.
xander: cordelia!
scene direction: they look down at her through the gaping hole.
xander: cordelia!
scene direction: she barely moves, just turning her head to look up through the hole above her.
scene direction: cordelia whispers
cordelia: i fell...
scene direction: the camera pans from her face over to her abdomen, where a long piece of rusty iron rebar is protruding from her left side, just under her rib cage.
scene change: cut to the street outside the magic shop. spike, buffy and angel come out, each holding a bag of love spell ingredients.
buffy: okay, spike, we got the stuff. where are they?
spike: what's your hurry?
buffy: my hurry is my intense desire to get you out of my life. you tend to cause trouble.
spike: i'll be out of your life in a few short hours. no trouble at all.
scene direction: without any warning they find themselves confronted by one of spike's former men.
lenny: hello, spike.
scene direction: they look around at the gang of vampires surrounding them.
buffy: no trouble at all.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the street in front of the magic shop. buffy, spike and angel face off with lenny and his gang.
spike: lenny. how have you been?
lenny: better since you left. you should have stayed gone.
spike: is that right?
scene direction: spike tosses his bag aside
buffy: you know, he was just leaving.
scene direction: buffy to spike
buffy: don't you start anything.
spike: this pissant used to work for me.
scene direction: buffy to angel
buffy: the guys are in trouble. we can't risk this.
angel: look, i don't think we have a choice.
lenny: you other two can walk away from this.
scene direction: spike to buffy
spike: i die, your chums die.
scene direction: buffy to lenny
buffy: sorry. we're staying.
lenny: not for long!
scene direction: buffy moves first off to her left. angel reacts instantly and moves off to his right. buffy throws her shopping bag at one vampire, catching him off guard, and does a front snap kick to his gut. he falls immediately.
scene direction: another vampire rushes her, and she does a full spinning wheel kick to his face.
scene direction: a vampire swings at angel, but he ducks it and punches him in the gut.
scene direction: angel turns around and backhand punches another vampire in the face followed up with an elbow to his gut.
scene direction: a vampire front snap kicks spike in the chest, sending him flying onto the hood of the car and landing hard on his back. another vampire enters the fray wielding a length of pipe. he swings it down at spike, but spike rolls out of the way and onto his hands and feet, and hops up onto the roof of the car.
scene direction: a vampire gets a firm hold of angel's sleeve and twists it around, forcing him to do a log roll to the ground. he uses his momentum to roll back up to a standing position. another vampire lunges at angel, but he grabs him and lifts him into the air, sending him head first into a nearby garbage can. another vampire runs at angel from behind, but he crouches down and sweep kicks him in the legs, making him trip and flip over into a diving shoulder roll.
scene direction: another vamp joins spike on the roof of the car, but spike just punches him dead in the face, and he flies backward onto the hood and windshield of the car. a second vampire jumps onto the car and tries to get at spike.
scene direction: a vampire tries to slam buffy into a low wall, but she uses her momentum and his leverage to jump sideways over the wall into the outdoor table area of the espresso pump. she lands on a table on her back, rolls off and comes up in a standing position. a vampire inside the cafe' rushes her, and she does a full spinning hook kick, which connects with his stomach.
scene direction: a vampire swings at spike, who is still on top of the car, but misses as spike redirects the hit, pushes down on his shoulder and kicks him in the rear, causing him to fall onto the trunk of the car and slide off the back.
scene direction: buffy side kicks a vampire in the neck, and he flies backwards into some chairs.
scene direction: a vampire comes straight for spike. he sidesteps him and sticks his arm straight out, which the vampire runs right into, causing him to flip underneath the arm, land on the hood of the car and roll off.
scene direction: a vampire swings at angel with a pipe, but misses. on the next swing, angel grabs hold of the pipe and twists it around, wresting it from the vampire's grip and knocking him out cold. angel spins halfway around and slams the end of the pipe into another vampire's crotch. the force of the blow lifts him from the ground. angel drops the pipe and punches the vampire in the face, sending him spinning to the pavement.
scene direction: a vampire jumps over a chain into the cafe'. buffy sees him coming, grabs a round metal table and swings it at him, smacking him hard in the face and knocking him to the floor. buffy looks around for a weapon and spies a mop by the wall. she stomps on the base, breaking the mop head off and leaving her with a long wooden pole. as a vampire attacks again, she swings the pole at his stomach, and he falls to the floor. as the other one tries to get up again, buffy slams the pole down onto his face, sending him back to the floor also.
scene direction: spike has a vampire by both arms and twists him around, making him fall in a spin onto the roof of the car and then roll off onto the sidewalk.
scene direction: behind him another vampire jumps up onto the hood of the car with a length of pipe.
scene direction: buffy swings her pole at a vampire and gets him in the stomach. spinning around to face another one, she slams the pole into his head and roundhouse kicks him in the side, sending him stumbling into a wall. a third vampire jumps in and tries to front snap kick her. his kick is too weak and she's able to block it with her pole. then she thrusts it up into his neck and throws him to the wall as well. he lands against the other vampire, and buffy shoves her makeshift stake through both of them. she lets go of the pole and runs out of the cafe' as they simultaneously explode into ashes.
scene direction: angel has a firm grip on a vampire's collar and punches him hard in the face, sending him spinning wildly to the ground.
scene direction: they all notice that they are temporarily without opponents, and so regroup in front of the magic shop, but it doesn't take long for several members of the gang to surround them. buffy makes a break for the shop's door while angel and spike slowly back in that direction as well. at the last instant they also run into the shop and slam the door closed as the gang of vampires gives chase.
scene direction: once inside, buffy heads behind the counter to see what she can find for a weapon. spike and angel grab one of the bookcases and slide it over against the front window. behind the counter buffy smashes the shopkeeper's chair, and picks up the legs to use as stakes. she comes back out from behind the counter and yells for the others to join her.
buffy: go!
scene direction: she hands them each a chair leg, and the three of them make their stand, just waiting for the already teetering bookcase to give and the gang to storm into the shop.
spike: this should be a kick.
buffy: i violently dislike you.
scene direction: suddenly the back door is kicked in, and a vampire comes in. angel turns and attacks. the vampire lunges at him, but angel ducks and gets underneath him, lifting him and sending him flying over his head and onto a table arrayed with books and candles. two more vampires rush in and make their way toward buffy. angel slams the back door closed, and leans against it.
scene direction: buffy push kicks the rolling ladder used to reach the upper shelves, and it smashes into the two vampires coming at her, knocking them to the floor.
scene direction: the first vampire is off of the table and tackles spike into a wall of shelves filled with jars. several of them break and spike and the jars go crashing to the floor. angel struggles to keep the door closed. one of the vampires who came after buffy swings at her, but he misses as she steps behind the sliding ladder. he punches again, this time through the rungs, but she sidesteps it.
scene change: cut to the factory. xander slowly climbs down into the hole to be with cordelia.
willow: be careful.
xander: yeah.
willow: don't move, cordy! oz went to get help!
scene direction: xander gets through and drops himself down to the concrete below.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. buffy grabs the arm that the vampire punched through the rungs of the ladder and holds onto it as she swings her stake home. she pulls it back out and lets go, and he bursts into ashes.
scene direction: she then turns her attention to her other attacker and roundhouse kicks him in the face as he's trying to get up. she grabs him by the shirt and shoves his head into a display case, breaking the glass, then yanks him up through the glass top as well. she pulls the dazed vampire around and shoves his head between the rungs of the ladder and push kicks it away.
scene direction: the back door is beginning to give, and so is the bookcase at the front window.
scene direction: buffy to angel
buffy: we need to get out of here!
angel: can we get to the roof?
scene direction: buffy scans the ceiling for a possible way out. just then the back door finally gives. angel is knocked to the floor, and the heavy door falls on top of him. lenny steps on top of it, scans the room quickly and heads straight for spike. behind him another vampire runs in, and buffy rushes to engage him. she roundhouse kicks him in the face and tries to follow up with a backhand punch. he blocks the hit and wraps his arm around hers and yanks her arm downward. she yanks back up and pulls her arm free, and punches him twice in the face. angel lies dazed under the door. lenny reaches spike and immediately punches him hard in the face, making him jerk aside but not fall.
lenny: yeah. i heard you'd gone soft. sad to see it, man.
scene direction: spike incredulous
spike: soft?
lenny: yeah, like baby food.
scene direction: behind spike the vampire he'd been fighting gets up.
scene direction: spike smiling
spike: well, then, let's give baby a taste.
scene direction: he does a back kick hitting the vampire behind him in the groin. lenny tries to punch, but spike ducks and punches him instead. spike spins around and backhand punches the vampire behind him in the face, who falls immediately. he ducks another punch from lenny, grabs onto his jacket, pulls him around roughly and smashes his face into the table.
scene direction: buffy punches her vampire in the gut and high punches him in the face.
scene direction: while he's stunned, she grabs onto his head and yanks it around and down to her left side, flipping him over onto his back. she runs over to angel, pushes the heavy door off of him and helps him up.
angel: i'm alright.
buffy: you're not up to your full strength yet.
scene direction: he sees the bookcase at the front window shake violently.
angel: that window's about to go.
scene direction: he spies what may be the answer.
angel: buffy.
scene direction: on a shelf they see several dozen small bottles of holy water.
scene change: cut to spike repeatedly smashing lenny's head onto the table.
spike: baby like his supper? baby like his supper?
scene direction: he lifts lenny and flips him over onto the table on his back.
spike: why doesn't baby have a nap?
scene direction: he raises his stake high and plunges it violently into lenny's chest.
scene direction: lenny looks stunned as he bursts into ashes. spike smiles with the thrill of the kill. behind him buffy yells out a warning.
buffy: spike! get down!
scene direction: he ducks to the floor as the bookcase at the front finally gives way and falls with a crash, along with plenty of broken window glass. spike looks up to see the vampires storm the shop. they quickly realize their peril as buffy and angel begin throwing the bottles of holy water at them like grenades. they break when they hit, spraying the vampires and burning them. spike catches some wayward drops and quickly pulls his coat over his face and stays down. the burning holy water soon has the attacking vampires making a hasty, screaming retreat. spike stands back up and watches them run, letting out a breath of satisfaction.
spike: now, that was fun.
scene direction: he faces buffy and angel only to get disbelieving looks.
scene direction: spike smiling
spike: oh, don't *tell* me that wasn't fun.
scene direction: spike chuckles
spike: oh, god! it's been so long since i had a decent spot of violence.
scene direction: spike stops and considers
spike: really puts things in perspective.
scene direction: angel bends over in pain and weakness, and buffy moves to gently support him.
scene direction: spike sarcastically
spike: oh, yeah. you two. just friends. no danger there.
buffy: could we just do the damn spell now?
spike: oh, sod the spell.
scene direction: spike waves it off
spike: your friends are at the factory.
scene direction: buffy and angel can't believe their gullibility.
scene direction: spike smiling
spike: i'm really glad i came here, you know? i've been all wrongheaded about this. weeping, crawling, blaming everybody else. i want dru back, i've just gotta be the man i was,
scene direction: spike stands proud
spike: the man she loved. i'm gonna do what i shoulda done in the first place: i'll find her, wherever she is, tie her up, torture her until she likes me again.
scene direction: he walks past them toward the back door. just before he goes out he turns back.
scene direction: spike smiles thoughtfully
spike: love's a funny thing.
scene direction: he heads out the back.
scene change: cut to the factory. cordelia moans as xander gets down next to her.
scene direction: xander very worried
xander: cordy... please hold on.
scene direction: xander strokes her hair
scene direction: cordelia weakly
cordelia: xander?
scene direction: cordelia looks blankly
cordelia: i can't see you...
scene direction: her head rolls to the side and she exhales. xander thinks her lost.
xander: cordy!
scene direction: from above willow sees cordelia's body just lie seemingly lifeless.
scene change: cut to a cemetery. a funeral is being held, attended by about twenty- five people dressed in black. the camera pans down from above as the priest reads from his book.
priest: he created all things in order that they might exist. and the generative forces of this world are wholesome, and there is no destructive poison in them. for the dominion of hades is not on earth, for righteousness is immortal.
scene direction: the camera reaches the ground and focuses on buffy and willow walking along a street.
buffy: so cordelia's gonna be okay?
willow: she lost a lot of blood. none of her vitals were punctured.
buffy: has she talked to xander yet?
willow: she wasn't allowed to have visitors at first. he's gonna see her today.
buffy: and oz?
willow: i never knew there was anything inside me that could feel this bad. for the longest time, i didn't know what i wanted. i wanted everything. and now... i just... i just want him to talk to me again.
buffy: just give it some time. and be prepared for some groveling.
willow: oh, i'm ready. i'm all *over* groveling.
buffy: good. because, you know, i hear sometimes it works.
scene change: cut to cordelia's hospital room. she is lying awake in bed, her head facing away from the door. xander arrives holding a huge bouquet of flowers and knocks on the door.
xander: can i come in?
scene direction: he gets no response, so he just comes in.
xander: they wouldn't let me see you until now.
scene direction: he lays the bouquet on the table where she can see them.
xander: those are flowers.
scene direction: he sits in the chair next to her bed. she slowly turns her head to face him.
xander: look, cordy, i want you to know that i...
scene direction: cordelia weakly
cordelia: xander?
scene direction: xander hopefully
xander: yeah.
cordelia: stay away from me.
scene direction: she turns her head back. xander looks down at his lap, then gets up to go. at the door he looks back one final time, before heading down the hall. when he's gone, she begins to cry.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. he sits in the atrium waiting for buffy to come visit. when he hears her footsteps he turns to see her step through the makeshift door and stop just inside the atrium.
angel: hey.
scene direction: angel stands up
angel: i was wondering when you were coming.
buffy: i'm not coming back.
scene direction: angel just looks at her.
buffy: we're not friends. we never were. and i can fool giles, and i can fool my friends, but i can't fool myself.
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: or spike, for some reason. what i want from you i can never have. you don't need me to take care of you anymore. so i'm gonna go.
angel: i don't accept that.
buffy: you have to.
angel: how can...
scene direction: he takes a step toward her, and she backs away.
angel: there's gotta be some way we can still see each other.
buffy: there is: tell me that you don't love me.
scene direction: knowing that saying those words would be a lie, angel instead says nothing. after a long moment, buffy turns and goes back into the mansion and leaves. angel sits down on the edge of one of the flower beds, staring sadly out into space.
scene change: cut to willow's room. she sits on the floor against her bed, her knees drawn up to her chest and her toes pointed inward, staring at her pez witch as she idly plays with it.
scene change: cut to the bronze. oz sits on one of the pool tables, his guitar in hand, but unable to play as he, too, stares sadly off into space.
scene change: cut to the library. xander tries to make himself useful reshelving books. he takes an armful of them into the cage and sorts them onto the reshelving cart. he stops for a moment, leans against the cart and stares out into the room beyond the cage.
scene change: cut to cordelia's hospital room. she lies still in her bed with her right hand against her temple, stroking herself there as she stares blankly at the ceiling.
scene change: cut to the quad at school. buffy sits alone at a bench, looking sadly down at the ground as other students pass by.
scene change: cut to a highway out of town. spike's car races by with gary oldman's version of "my way" blaring on the radio. cut inside. spike rocks along and screams the lyrics as he smokes and defies the daylight, driving with only his blackened windows to protect him.
spike: i plan each charted course / each little step along the highway / and more, much more than this cut outside. the car speeds along the nearly empty highway.
spike: i did it my wa 