scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: night in a wood near sunnydale. the full moon rises slowly above the trees. cut into the wood. the camera moves among the trees and bushes low to the ground in slow motion. buffy reads from 'call of the wild' in a voiceover.
buffy: 'one night after supper, the lead dog turned up a snowshoe rabbit. the dog lay down low to the race, his body flashing forward, leap by leap.' cut to the library. buffy's voice dissolves into that of willow, who is walking around the area by the cage while reading from the book.
willow: 'he was sounding the deeps of his nature and the parts of his nature that were deeper than he, going back into the wombs of time. the rabbit could not...' suddenly werewolf oz leaps up against the cage door and rattles it at her. she startles and steps back.
willow: okay. uh, maybe we should try a less stimulating passage.
scene direction: she flips through the pages of the book while oz growls at her and settles back down in the cage. xander walks into the library, carrying a thermos and a couple of magazines, looking very tired.
xander: private harris reporting for oz watch.
scene direction: willow looks up from the book
willow: xander! oh, good.
scene direction: xander yawns as he walks up to her and takes the book out of her hands.
xander: oh! 'call of the wild.' aren't we reading the cliff notes to this for english?
willow: some of us are.
scene direction: willow takes back the book
willow: anyway, it'll help you stay awake. it's good and, and very wolfy.
scene direction: willow looks at oz
willow: seems to soothe the savage beast.
scene direction: she takes xander's arm and leads him away from the cage toward the table. as the camera pulls back with them the towels draped across most of the cage come into view.
scene direction: willow quietly
willow: except for the parts about...
scene direction: willow whispers
willow: rabbits.
scene direction: oz hears that, and he jumps against the cage, banging it loudly. xander and willow both jump and look back at him.
scene direction: xander snags the book
xander: rabbis?
scene direction: xander looks it over
scene direction: willow takes the book back again
willow: it... seems to make him a little overexcited.
scene direction: willow puts it on the table
willow: okay. now, he's had his 2:00 feeding, and, uh, after sunrise, if he forgets where his clothes are, they're on top of the file cabinet in his cage.
scene direction: willow indicates the cage
willow: i put those towels up for privacy.
xander: uh, no worries. i can handle the oz full monty.
scene direction: xander smirks
xander: i mean, not 'handle' handle, like 'hands to flesh' handle.
scene direction: willow nods
willow: mm, okay.
scene direction: willow with lots of nervous gesturing
willow: well, it's not for you. it's for me, 'cause i'm still getting used to half a monty.
xander: oh. good.
scene direction: xander realizes
xander: half? you and oz? which half?
scene direction: willow with a big smile
willow: wouldn't *you* like to know? anyway, he's more manageable tonight and on the third night. tomorrow night, the total full moon, that's when he's a real wolfer.
scene direction: willow reaches across the table
willow: but in case there's trouble... there won't be, but if...
scene direction: she holds up the dart rifle. xander takes it from her with his right hand while still holding his things with his left, and slips his index finger into the trigger guard.
xander: sleepy time. gotcha.
scene direction: he holds the stock of the weapon against his shoulder.
willow: thanks again for doing this. i wouldn't have asked, but i have this test.
xander: no big. you can count on me.
scene direction: xander looks at his things
xander: i got my coffee, magazines. figured i'd read, maybe
scene direction: xander points with the gun
xander: run the stairs over there a little bit.
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: i'm good.
scene direction: willow isn't thrilled with the way he's handling the rifle, and so takes it out of his hand, giving him a nervous smile. she sets it down on the table, gives him a little wave goodbye and starts out. on the way past the cage she gives werewolf oz a little wave, too.
willow: bye.
scene direction: oz raises his head and growls as he watches her go. xander picks the book up from the table, inspects the cover and looks up at oz. he decides to make things easy on himself. he climbs onto the table, sets the book down at one end and lies on his stomach, using the book as a pillow. he smiles as he settles himself for a relaxing nap. in the cage oz lets out a loud growl.
scene change: cut to the cemetery. faith and buffy are strolling through on patrol.
faith: nice place. do you ever catch kids doing the diddy out here?
buffy: no. there's a smooch spot up by the woods. that's usually where kids go.
faith: yeah? bet you and scott have been up there kicking the gearshift.
scene direction: faith grins
scene direction: buffy gives her a look
buffy: hardly. only been on a few dates.
faith: but you like him. and when you think about him, you get that
scene direction: faith inhales
faith: good, down-low tickle, right?
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: yeah, i guess, but...
scene direction: buffy realizes what she may have meant, and gives her the eye
buffy: how low?
scene direction: faith grins broadly
faith: you tell me.
buffy: how about not?
scene direction: buffy looks around dreamily
buffy: but he is...
scene direction: buffy sighs
scene direction: nice, and he's funny.
faith: and quite a muffin.
scene direction: she gives buffy a smile. buffy smiles back.
buffy: blueberry. that crunchy, munchy stuff on top. but my most favorite thing so far
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: is that he doesn't seem to be any kind of hell beast.
faith: all men are beasts, buffy.
buffy: okay, i was hoping to not get that cynical till i was at least forty.
faith: it's not cynical. i mean, it's realistic. every guy from... manimal down to mr. i-love-the-english-patient has beast in him. and i don't care how sensitive they act. they're all still just in it for the chase.
scene direction: buffy has to tacitly admit that faith may have a point.
scene change: cut to the woods. a boy runs through the bushes in a panic. the camera chases him, and a creature's growling and heavy breath can be heard. the boy looks back to check on his pursuer, and trips over a low branch. he rolls onto his back and tries to push himself away with his feet, but whatever is chasing him is quickly on top of him and drags him away. the boy screams loudly as he disappears from the camera's view.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: sunnydale high school. willow, oz and buffy climb the outside stairs from the quad up to the balcony.
willow: i don't think that's true, that every guy is in it only for the chase.
buffy: i know. it is an awful generalization.
scott: hey buffy!
scene direction: she looks along the balcony to see him approaching at a quick pace.
scene direction: willow gives oz a smile.
scott: that's what i stopped you for, basically. hey.
buffy: okay.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: hey.
scene direction: scott's friends debbie and pete approach the group. oz notices them and holds up his hand in greeting. debbie is holding a bouquet of flowers.
oz: how do, debbie?
debbie: hi, oz. hey, you're not doing jazz band this year?
oz: oh, can't take the pressure. it's not the music that's hard, it's the marching.
buffy: we have a marching jazz band?
scene direction: buffy looks at scott inquisitively
oz: yeah, but, you know, since the best jazz is improvisational, we'd be going off in all directions, banging into floats... scary.
scene direction: willow smiles at everyone
willow: he's just being oz.
oz: pretty much full-time.
scene direction: oz smiles at willow
scene direction: buffy sees debbie's bouquet
buffy: those are pretty flowers.
debbie: thanks. pete brought them for me.
scene direction: debbie smiles at him
scene direction: pete smiles
pete: yeah. well, i-i'm sure scott does that kind of stuff for you, too, buffy.
scott: oh, well, we're not up to flowers.
scene direction: scott to buffy
scott: are we? up to flowers? did i miss flowers?
scene direction: buffy reassuringly
buffy: no. we're pre-posy. definitely.
scene direction: scott nods, relieved.
buffy: what time is it?
scene direction: buffy grabs scott's watch
buffy: oh, i have to go see mr. platt today.
debbie: platt? the school counselor?
buffy: i get to convince him that i'm little miss stable so i can stay in school.
debbie: platt creeps me out. i would totally quit going, but i'm flunking senior bio, and my teacher says i have success issues.
scene direction: debbie giggles
oz: senior bio? i kinda aced that final.
scene direction: willow needles oz
willow: and how did you do that? oh, right. you showed up.
scene direction: he takes willow's jibes good-naturedly.
scene direction: oz to debbie
oz: if you want my notes, they're yours.
debbie: thanks! that'd be great!
scene direction: the bell rings.
buffy: we'd better go.
scene direction: buffy to scott
buffy: i'll see you.
scott: yep.
scene direction: they kiss lightly on the lips. buffy turns and heads into the building.
scene direction: oz gives them a wave, and he and willow follow her. scott gives his friends a contented look.
scene change: cut to giles' office. he and xander look up from reading an article in the paper and head out into the main area.
giles: we need to recheck every possible exit avenue.
xander: i'm telling you, it's a waste of time. i was here all night.
scene direction: they notice willow and oz coming into the library.
giles: right.
scene direction: giles smiles stiffly
giles: it's good to see you. um, no need to panic.
oz: just a thought: poker: not your game.
scene direction: willow worried
willow: what's the deal, giles?
scene direction: giles starts to pace
giles: now, uh, bear in mind, uh, most likely, there, there, there is no deal,
scene direction: giles stops and looks at xander
giles: but um, if, if, if there was a deal, then it, um, would concern murder... last night. a male student was, was found i-i-in the woods.
willow: which student?
giles: jeff orkin.
oz: jeff? he was...
scene direction: he looks over at xander. xander looks down at the floor.
oz: i knew him.
giles: i'm afraid he was, he was, um, terribly mauled. now, uh, much as i hate to think it, i-i-it could be the handiwork of, of...
oz: me.
scene direction: willow very concerned
willow: wolf you, not you you.
xander: but it's not. not wolf you, not you you. the room was secured, the gate was locked,
scene direction: xander heads into the cage
xander: and the window unbreakable, and...
scene direction: xander looks up at the window
xander: open!
scene direction: he points up at it as he comes back out of the cage.
scene direction: willow upset
willow: oh, god.
scene direction: giles and oz both go over to check the window, too.
xander: not to freak. i rested my eyes now and then. that's all.
scene direction: willow gives him a betrayed look.
scene direction: giles looks down from the window
giles: how long... *exactly* did you...
scene direction: rest your eyes for? (glares at him)
scene direction: oz just stares into space, turning the implications over in his mind.
xander: a little now, uh, a little then. but i never heard oz leave, and he was here in the morning when i, um...
scene direction: xander searches for words
xander: when i...
scene direction: giles angrily
giles: woke up!
xander: you could put it that way if you want to, mr. technical.
scene direction: oz walks over to willow, looking at her sadly.
willow: oh, god.
scene direction: she takes his hand to comfort him. he looks at giles imploringly.
scene change: cut to the school psychologist's office. the door opens, and buffy enters. she closes it behind herself and steps up to the desk. mr. platt is sitting in his chair facing away, looking out the window while his ever-present cigarette smolders in his fingers.
mr. platt: two o'clock. miss summers.
scene direction: he makes no move to turn around to face her.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: buffy summers, reporting for sanity.
scene direction: her smiles fades when she realizes he still isn't going to turn around.
scene direction: instead he just blows out a huge cloud of cigarette smoke.
buffy: look... i know that i have to do this, and i-i'll cooperate, and i'll look at your ink blots and everything, but... i don't wanna talk about my life or my childhood or... anything, for that matter, actually. and, uh... i don't wanna be friends here.
scene direction: mr. platt finally turns
mr. platt: we're not gonna be friends.
scene direction: mr. platt smiles at her
mr. platt: you have friends already, i hope.
scene direction: mr. platt waves his hand at her
mr. platt: friends are a good thing.
scene direction: mr. platt takes another drag from his cigarette
mr. platt: mm-hm.
scene direction: mr. platt crushes it out
mr. platt: they like you, agree with you, tell you what you wanna hear.
scene direction: (reaches into his desk drawer) that's not what you need right now.
scene direction: (pulls out a can of deodorizer) what you need is a trained, not... *too*
scene direction: crazy professional who will always give you his honest opinion.
scene direction: he pops the top off of the aerosol can and gives a couple of sprays around himself. buffy just gives him an odd look and says nothing.
mr. platt: which i offer.
scene direction: he looks back at her for a moment before gesturing to a chair.
mr. platt: have a seat.
scene direction: he caps the can and puts it away as she sits in the chair.
buffy: not too crazy? those are your credentials?
scene direction: he stands up and starts to walk around his desk.
mr. platt: look, buffy, any person -- grownup, shrink,
scene direction: mr. platt sits on his desk
mr. platt: pope -- any person who claims to be *totally* sane is either lying or not very bright. i mean, everyone has problems. everybody has demons, right?
scene direction: buffy averts her eyes
buffy: gotta say i'm with you on that.
scene direction: buffy looks down at her hands
mr. platt: excellent. so, the hope i bring you is: demons can be fought.
scene direction: mr. platt buffy looks up at him in surprise
mr. platt: people can change. *you* can change. now. your turn.
scene direction: mr. platt crosses his arms
mr. platt: let's start with why you ran away.
scene direction: she looks up for a moment, then begins to fidget and lean back in her seat.
scene direction: buffy smiles weakly
buffy: that's a long story.
mr. platt: mm.
scene direction: mr. platt shrugs
mr. platt: bore me.
buffy: you know, i'm, i'm really over it. i-i'm moving on, i feel good, i'm, i'm even dating someone new.
mr. platt: all good things.
scene direction: mr. platt gestures widely with his arms
mr. platt: but still, you're
scene direction: mr. platt inhales and leans back
mr. platt: you're bringing me in at the end of the movie.
scene direction: buffy awkwardly
buffy: i was dating someone. uh, it-it ended badly. my mom and i were fighting, and i... kinda freaked.
mr. platt: well, tell me more about this guy. the bad ending guy.
scene direction: she looks up at him for a long moment before letting out a breath and looking down at her hands again.
buffy: he was my first... i loved him, and then he...
mr. platt: ...changed.
scene direction: she looks up at him, surprised again.
buffy: yeah.
mr. platt: he got mean.
buffy: yes.
mr. platt: and you didn't stop loving him.
scene direction: buffy doesn't know what to add or how to respond.
mr. platt: look, lots of people lose themselves in love. it's, it's no shame. they write songs about it. the hitch is, you can't stay lost. sooner or later, you... you have to get back to yourself.
scene direction: buffy considers
buffy: and if you can't?
mr. platt: if you can't...
scene direction: mr. platt inhales
mr. platt: well, love becomes your master, and you're just its dog.
scene direction: she didn't expect to hear it put quite that way.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy comes in and finds giles pacing and everyone else sitting on the steps and looking gloomy. she sets her bag on the table.
buffy: i'm afraid to ask.
scene direction: buffy crosses her arms
cordelia: oz ate someone last night.
scene direction: willow glares
willow: he did not!
scene direction: xander annoyed
xander: oz does not eat people.
scene direction: xander cordelia rolls her eyes
xander: it's more werewolf play.
scene direction: xander buffy looks at giles inquiringly
xander: you know, i bat you around a little bit, like a cat toy. i have harmless, wolf fun.
scene direction: is it oz's fault that, (oz lowers his head) you know, side effect, people get cut to ribbons, and maybe then he'll take a little nibble and... (willow gives him a hurt look) i'm not helping, am i?
giles: no. oz may have got out of his cage last night.
oz: or maybe there's a, another werewolf roaming the woods.
giles: perhaps. perhaps it's something else entirely.
buffy: it's okay. we'll work together, and we'll figure this out.
giles: yes. um...
scene direction: giles thinks
giles: buffy. uh, you, uh, you patrol the woods.
scene direction: uh, the others, um, check out the morgue.
scene direction: willow hopeful
willow: right! we can see if it's a werewolf kill or not.
scene direction: willow glances at oz next to her
willow: but what about oz?
giles: um... well, i have some research materials at home i need to look up. uh... w-w-we could ask faith to watch over him.
scene direction: buffy nods and looks at oz. oz looks up at giles.
oz: what, you're having a slayer watch me? oh, good, we're not overreacting.
scene direction: he gets up to leave, not willing to listen to any more of this. willow gives buffy a concerned look and gets up to go after him. she reaches out and touches him on the shoulder. he stops and turns to face her. she tries to give him a reassuring smile.
oz: okay. uh, you know that thing where you bail in the middle of an upsetting conversation?
scene direction: oz inhales
oz: i have to do that.
scene direction: oz exhales
oz: it's kinda dramatic, i know, but... sometimes, it's a necessary guy thing.
willow: and i want you to... do the guy thing, but...
scene direction: she glances and gestures at the clock on the wall and sighs. oz looks over at it, too. 5 34pm. almost sunset. he looks back at her and the others, realizing this isn't the time to do the guy thing, and lets out a heavy sigh. he looks over at the cage, and reluctantly goes to lock himself up. willow follows him. the door squeaks when he pulls it open and again as he pulls it closed. it locks shut with a clang.
willow: oz?
scene direction: oz unwilling to look at her
oz: get away from the cage.
scene direction: willow confused by his tone of voice
willow: what?
scene direction: oz still not looking at her
oz: it's gonna happen soon.
scene direction: willow still won't go.
oz: get away from me.
scene direction: he turns his back to her. willow is hurt and confused by his behavior.
scene change: cut to the woods later that night. buffy patrols through them by herself, looking around and listening carefully. the camera watches her from behind some branches. a figure quickly and silently slips in front of the camera. buffy thinks she heard something and raises her stake.
scene direction: again a figure dashes by, and this time buffy sees it. she runs after it through the bushes. suddenly she stops in her tracks when she sees it come straight for her. she stares in disbelief as the man rushes her and knocks her down as he runs by. buffy steadies herself on the ground and looks up as he goes. he stops and looks back at her. it's angel, and he growls and snarls at her. there is blood around his mouth, but he has on his human face, not his vampire's. she can only stare at him in complete surprise.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: in the woods. angel continues to growl at buffy. he charges her as she gets up. she grabs him and throws him to the ground, but also falls under his weight. angel rolls to a stop and crawls quickly back to her before she can get back up. he lunges at her, and she uses his momentum to flip him over herself and onto his back. she rises to one knee and punches him as he tries to regain his footing. he takes the blow in the head, but just spins around and delivers a solid backhand punch to her face, making her fall onto her back. angel jumps on her again, but she uses her leverage to send him onto his back once again. he twists his body, reaches over and punches her in the gut. she quickly rolls away and gets to a standing position. she does a full spinning low hook kick, hitting him in the head as he tries to stand. he slumps down on all fours, and as he looks up at her she punches him solidly in the face, making him slump to the ground, badly beaten. after a few breaths he loses consciousness, and his body relaxes. buffy breathes hard as she looks down at him, still not believing what she sees.
scene change: cut to the morgue. a flashlight shines into a room where several bodies are lying on gurneys. cut to an adjacent room. willow comes in and shines her flashlight on the closed body drawers along a wall. she finds the one she wants and opens it. she pulls out the drawer and lifts the plastic sheet away from jeff orkin's face. she sets her metal scooby-doo lunch box on his chest and opens it. behind her xander approaches. she pulls out a plastic bag and a pair of tweezers. when xander reaches her he takes one look at the body and nearly vomits.
xander: oh, god.
scene direction: he bends over, holding his mouth, trying to hold it back. willow just hands him the flashlight.
willow: here. hold this.
scene direction: he doesn't hold it very steadily, and willow tries to adjust his arm as she would an unruly desk lamp. she takes jeff's hand and tries to get a look at his fingers. suddenly xander spins around and shines the flashlight into cordelia's face.
xander: aah!
cordelia: god!
scene direction: willow just reaches for xander's hand again and pulls it around to shine the light where she needs it. it's not working out very well.
scene direction: xander to cordelia
xander: we're doing crime here. you don't sneak up during crime.
scene direction: he finally gives willow his attention again and holds the light steady.
cordelia: god, have a...
scene direction: cordelia gets a look at jeff's mauled body
cordelia: okay!
scene direction: cordelia covers her face
cordelia: scarred for life! oh, god!
scene direction: willow just calmly goes about getting some samples from under jeff's fingernails.
cordelia: willow, how can you stand it?
xander: yeah, will. i mean, this guy *is* pretty barf-worthy. can't we be elsewhere? like, you know, is oz cleared or what, huh?
scene direction: she's finished with jeff's hand and puts it back under the plastic. she moves the flashlight in xander's hand around and inspects the rest of the body.
willow: i'm not sure. i mean, there are a lot of incised wounds, but they could be from anything.
cordelia: anything with big, sharp teeth and vicious...
scene direction: xander interrupts
xander: do you wanna go back to the car and wait?
scene direction: willow starts to pick at jeff's chest with the tweezers.
scene direction: cordelia stares, taken aback
cordelia: no. god. i'm just saying...
willow: almost done. lemme just get a few stray hairs from the body.
scene direction: they could be from the attacker.
scene direction: cordelia holds her nose against the stench.
xander: great. so we got everything we need?
willow: yep. that's it.
scene direction: she drops the tweezers and faints dead away, falling back into xander.
scene direction: he quickly gets an arm under her as she goes down, and they all sink to the floor.
cordelia: oh!
xander: okay. uh... little too much excitement for the wilster here.
scene direction: he steadies willow's head against his chest so it doesn't flop around.
xander: doesn't look good for oz, does it?
cordelia: it really doesn't.
scene direction: cordelia they look up at jeff
cordelia: this guy was ripped apart by a big wild animal.
scene change: cut to the mansion. buffy finds drusilla's trunk and knocks miss edith and the other dolls from it. she throws open the lid and dumps the contents out onto the floor. there she finds a heavy chain and shackles.
scene direction: back in the main room she throws one end over an iron bracket holding up the high marble fireplace mantel and locks the shackles on angel's wrists. she steps back as he lies unconscious on the floor, with one arm held high by the chain. he wakes up and gets to his knees. suddenly he lashes out at her, but she jumps back in time and he misses. he leans against his bonds and growls at buffy, then crouches down and cowers like a trapped animal. she walks around him in a wide arc and stops when she notices the place where he fell from the dimensional portal. there is a silhouette of him on the floor surrounded by scorch marks from the intense light. angel continues to growl and struggle with the chain.
scene direction: buffy cringes to see him like this. she kneels down by the silhouette for a closer look. angel makes another attempt to grab her, and she jerks back, but he's too far away to do any harm. she looks back down at the scorch marks and winces at the sound of angel struggling behind her.
scene direction: he soon stops and slumps to the floor with one arm raised high by the chain.
scene change: cut to the library. werewolf oz growls in his cage. faith is oblivious as she moves around to the sounds of mark ferrari on her portable cd player. buffy comes in behind her and taps her on the shoulder.
scene direction: instinctively faith spins around and lands a swinging backhand punch to buffy's face.
buffy: oh!
scene direction: she stumbles backward and steadies herself against the portable card catalog.
faith: oh! uh, buffy! are you okay? what are you doing here?
scene direction: buffy holds her jaw
buffy: uh, bleeding internally, but i'll live.
faith: god, i'm sorry.
scene direction: faith shrugs with the cd player
faith: i guess i didn't hear you.
buffy: figured as much. ow. again.
scene direction: buffy takes a breath and arches her back
buffy: uh... actually, i-i-i came to give you the rest of the night off.
faith: get out of jail free, huh? how come?
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: couldn't sleep.
scene direction: buffy takes off her jacket
buffy: figured i'd, uh, cram for my french test.
faith: that's cool. i was going kinda crazy in here, but i can get in a few stakings before sunrise.
scene direction: she heads for the door, handing buffy the keys to the cage on the way.
scene direction: buffy follows her with her gaze.
buffy: knock yourself out. not literally, though.
faith: yeah. later.
scene direction: the door can be heard closing behind her. buffy looks at oz for a moment, then turns her attention to the card catalog. she sets the keys on it, pulls out the first drawer and begins to search through them.
scene change: cut to morning. sunlight pours in through the cage window and down on oz lying there naked. the camera pans up to giles arriving with a cup of coffee in his hand. he looks down at oz to make sure he's not a wolf, unlocks the door and pulls it slightly open. he takes a sip from his cup and heads over to where he sees buffy in the stacks curled up and asleep in a chair with a book on her lap and a drawer from the card catalog next to her on a stepstool. other books are lying on the floor around her. he quietly takes the steps to the upper level and reaches down for one of the books. as he does so buffy stirs from her slumber and looks up at him.
buffy: hey.
giles: hmm. hello.
scene direction: giles sips his coffee
scene direction: buffy quickly realizes what it must look like, her surrounded by all these books, and tries to play it off.
buffy: oh. boy.
scene direction: buffy stands up
buffy: faith and her nutty books.
scene direction: giles reads some book titles
giles: 'exploring demon dimensions' and 'mystery of acathla'.
buffy: yeah! and she still listens to heavy metal.
scene direction: buffy walks toward the stairs
buffy: freaky deaky.
giles: buffy...
scene direction: she realizes that he hasn't bought it and leans against the railing. he gives her his attention and slowly comes over to her as she speaks.
buffy: what if... i told you that... i had a dream about angel... and, um... it brought up some questions?
giles: i'd say it was to be expected. must have been some dream. i didn't think you knew what a card index was for.
scene direction: giles sips his coffee
buffy: i dreamt that he came back.
scene direction: she sits down on the steps. giles comes down to sit with her.
giles: of course. after jenny was killed,
scene direction: giles sets the cup aside
giles: i had dreams that she was s-still alive, that i saved her.
buffy: this was vivid. really vivid. three-dimensional, sensurround, the hills are alive...
scene direction: she stops when she realizes her use of jenny's metaphor. giles takes off his glasses and considers for a moment.
giles: do you believe it was a prophecy?
buffy: no. i-i don't know. i...
scene direction: buffy inhales deeply
buffy: i guess it just... it made me wonder.
scene direction: giles looks away in thought.
buffy: is there a chance even? could it happen?
giles: well, there's no record of anyone returning from a demon dimension once the... gate was closed. i-i-i can't imagine how it could happen or-or why.
buffy: let's just pretend for a second that... angel somehow found his way back to sunnydale. what would he be like?
giles: i really can't say. from what is known about that dimension, i- it would suggest a world of... brutal torment. and time moves quite differently there, so...
buffy: i remember. so he would've been down there for hundreds of years.
giles: yes.
scene direction: giles looks up at her
buffy: of torture.
giles: it would take someone of extraordinary... will and character to survive that and, uh, retain any semblance of self.
scene direction: giles swallows hard
giles: most likely, he'd be, be a monster.
scene direction: buffy hopelessly
buffy: a lost cause.
giles: maybe. maybe not. in my experience, there are... two types of monster. the first, uh, can be redeemed, or more importantly, wants to be redeemed.
buffy: and the second type?
giles: the second is void of humanity, cannot respond to reason... or love.
scene direction: willow shows up unexpectedly, bringing a box of donuts with her.
willow: i thought faith was on duty.
buffy: oh, hey. change of plans.
scene direction: buffy comes down to her
willow: glazed or cake?
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: it's fun to watch them make them.
scene direction: willow gestures
willow: they use this spritzy thing, and they drop the batter into this...
buffy: couldn't sleep, huh?
scene direction: willow sighs
willow: i've been at mister donut since the tv did that snowy thing.
scene direction: behind her oz has dressed and comes out of the cage.
willow: how come *you're* the wakey girl? i mean, this time, it's not your boyfriend who's the cold-blooded...
scene direction: she notices buffy look behind her with wide eyes. oz slips on his outer shirt and comes up next to her.
willow: jelly doughnut?
scene direction: willow offers the box
scene direction: oz ignores the donuts
oz: everything all right?
buffy: yeah. uh, what happened with the inspection of the body?
scene direction: willow smiles, avoiding the issue
willow: anyone? they're yummy delicious!
buffy: willow, come on. was it werewolf?
scene direction: willow sets the box down on the table. her expression shows that she's not overly anxious to say.
buffy: was it a vampire?
willow: i-it wasn't conclusive.
buffy: how could it not be conclusive? what did it look like? was he bit?
giles: let her finish, buffy.
scene direction: buffy looks back at him
buffy: no, it's just...
scene direction: she realizes the sensitivity of the issue with oz standing right there.
buffy: i'm sorry.
scene direction: she sits down. giles just calmly waits for willow to finish her report.
scene change: cut to the cafeteria. buffy has a plate of various flavors of jell-o, and looks for a place to sit. scott waves to her.
scott: buffy. over here.
scene direction: she comes over to him sitting with debbie and pete, and sets down her plate.
buffy: hey.
scene direction: scott sees what's on her plate.
scott: hey. uh... i can't, i can't back you on that lunch. nutritional demerits.
buffy: oh. my stomach doesn't want hard food today.
scene direction: buffy points at the green jell-o
buffy: but there's fruit in it.
scene direction: scott whispers
scott: those are marshmallows.
scene direction: buffy looks at it
buffy: oh.
scene direction: debbie and pete give her curious looks. buffy sighs.
buffy: i'm... i'm really out of it today. i didn't sleep well last night.
debbie: just don't tell mr. platt you have insomnia. he'll make you start a dream journal.
pete: oh, what's that, like, a barbie thing? dear dream journal, how come ken hasn't come around since he got that earring?
scene direction: debbie giggles
debbie: i never did it. he's a quack.
buffy: i kinda liked him.
debbie: really? i guess, i guess he's kinda funny and stuff. it's just... sometimes i just don't like the things he says.
buffy: oh, he definitely... marches to the beat of his own drummer. a- actually, i think he makes his own drums.
scott: well, my mom says that therapy can be completely helpful.
pete: yeah, but your mom has the wattage of a zippo lighter, scott.
scene direction: debbie can't resist a giggle.
scene direction: scott to buffy
scott: i hope you realize i don't actually know these people. i just... i thought you would like me better if i had friends, so i hired them.
scene direction: buffy gives him a weak smile. he turns to face her completely.
scott: so... i, uh, i wanted to tell you that you look great today. but now i wanna raise that to amazing because you didn't sleep well.
buffy: uh...
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: that's really sweet. um... and i-i wish i didn't have to,
scene direction: buffy stands up
buffy: but i just remembered that i do, so, uh, i'll see you later.
scene direction: she pats him on the shoulder as she walks around him on the way out, leaving her jell-o behind.
scott: uh, yeah.
scene direction: debbie and pete follow her briefly with their gazes.
pete: check out scotty liking the manic-depressive chick.
scene direction: scott isn't too pleased with that comment.
scene change: cut to the hall. buffy comes out of the cafeteria and pauses for a moment to reflect on pete's comment before continuing down the hall.
scene change: cut to the mansion. buffy comes in through the heavy drapes hanging across the side entrance. angel crouches against the wall, whimpering.
scene direction: buffy stops at the wall opposite him and looks at him suffering. slowly she comes toward him. angel just remains hunched over in his crouch, not looking up or giving any indication that he knows she's there.
buffy: angel?
scene direction: he doesn't seem to hear her.
buffy: do you understand me?
scene direction: still nothing from him. she comes even closer. the tattoo on his back beckons to her. slowly she reaches out and touches him lightly on the shoulder. he suddenly and very violently lashes out at her and roars.
scene direction: she instantly takes several steps backward away from him. he goes back to his pathetic whimpering. buffy looks at him, terribly hurt, and rushes from the mansion. angel growls deeply at her. above him the mantel bracket begins to loosen. dust falls from the stone as he pulls against the chain.
scene change: cut to the school. cut to pete and debbie walking along a back hall.
pete: debbie, come on. just for a minute.
scene direction: he takes both of her hands and tries to nudge her against the wall, but she evades him and pulls away.
debbie: no, i can't. i have to meet a friend.
scene direction: he pulls her back to him by both wrists.
pete: so you'll be late but happy.
scene direction: he kisses her and reaches behind him with one hand to open a door. he backs into the dark supply room pulling her in with him. debbie giggles, and once inside he pulls her close and they embrace and kiss passionately. pete breaks off the kiss and backs away toward a shelf.
debbie: no, no. let's stay here.
pete: relax, debbie. what's wrong with you today?
scene direction: he takes her in his arms again and kisses her some more. after a moment he notices an empty jar on the shelf. all that's left in it is the last few drops of a green fluorescent fluid.
pete: what is that?
scene direction: she turns his face to hers and tries to kiss him again.
scene direction: debbie giggles
debbie: nothing. kiss me.
scene direction: debbie kisses him
pete: no. debbie, you did not drink that, did you?
scene direction: debbie looks at the jar
debbie: drink it?
scene direction: debbie giggles
debbie: you know i didn't.
scene direction: pete looks intensely at her
pete: debbie, what's going on?
scene direction: her giddiness fades, and she looks back nervously.
scene change: cut to mr. platt's office. buffy opens the door, comes in and closes it behind her. she finds him turned away again, looking out of the window, his signature cigarette smoldering between his fingers.
buffy: two o'clock. buffy summers, right?
scene direction: she fears he'll turn around again and, although he can't see her, she extends her arm in a gesture to stop him.
buffy: wait. don't turn around.
scene direction: buffy realizes her useless gesture
buffy: okay? and don't say anything.
scene direction: buffy clutches her jacket
buffy: just listen.
scene direction: buffy begins to pace and breathe nervously
buffy: i mean, that's, that's your thing, right?
scene direction: she stops pacing and stands behind a chair, shifting her weight from leg to leg and fidgeting with her jacket against the chair's backrest.
buffy: there's something going on.
scene direction: buffy her voice shakes
buffy: i mean, th-this whole entire story is probably gonna convince you that i'm loony-bin material, but...
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: there's nobody else that i can talk to.
scene direction: buffy inhales nervously
buffy: not willow and... not giles. nobody.
scene direction: buffy starts to pace again
buffy: if they, if they found out, they'd freak on me or they'd do something, and...
scene direction: buffy stops and faces him
buffy: i need help. i just, i need to talk to someone.
scene direction: buffy takes a few breaths
buffy: i'm so scared.
scene direction: buffy sheds a tear
scene direction: it's this guy. (steps up to the desk) h-h-he...
scene direction: she notices his cigarette now. it's burned completely down to the filter, not once having had the ashes tapped off. she realizes that something is very wrong.
buffy: he's come back.
scene direction: the camera pans over from her to mr. platt, sitting dead in his chair.
scene direction: his face and chest have been severely mauled.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the supply room. pete is seething with anger. he goes over to the empty bottle and picks it up.
pete: so the bottle just
scene direction: pete faces debbie
pete: jumped out of the cabinet and spilled on its own.
scene direction: debbie shakes her head
debbie: of course not. i-i was trying to get rid of it.
pete: you were trying to get rid of it?
debbie: to help you. you know how you get.
scene direction: pete exhales
pete: you think this has
scene direction: pete clenches his fist
pete: *anything* to do with how i get?
debbie: well, when you drink it...
pete: when i drink it, nothing, debbie. nothing!
scene direction: pete debbie flinches
pete: i don't need this anymore, okay? i am way, *way* past that now.
scene direction: he slams the bottle back onto the shelf.
pete: you see?
scene direction: he takes another bottle down and throws it to the floor, breaking it.
pete: you see?!
scene direction: pete breaks another
pete: no more.
scene direction: pete breaks a third
pete: you could pour out everything i made, and it wouldn't help. and you wanna know why?
scene direction: he grabs her by the arms. she whimpers in fright.
pete: you wanna know why?! because all it takes now is you, debbie.
scene direction: pete grits his teeth
pete: you and your stupid, grating voice!
scene direction: his neck muscles suddenly become tense, and he yells out in pain. he grunts as his head jerks back and forth, and the skin on his face and neck begins to thicken, and the veins bulge out. he screams as his head whips around violently. debbie watches in terror. with a final scream his transformation to his alter ego is complete. his face is mottled and grotesquely misshapen. debbie is too frightened to even breathe. pete shakes her by the arms.
scene direction: pete angrily
pete: *you're* the reason i started the formulas in the first place: to be the man you wanted! and you pay me back how?
scene direction: pete debbie sobs in fear
pete: by whoring around with other guys and taunting me!
debbie: no! i don't! i don't even look!
scene direction: pete backhand punches her in the face and shoves her to the floor. she gets to her hands and knees and crawls around to face him. slowly she stands back up.
pete: is that something your shrink taught you, debbie? huh? huh? to share?
scene direction: pete approaches her
pete: to communicate? to piss me off?!
scene direction: he swings another backhand punch at her, and she falls to the floor again. this time she stays down and cowers.
pete: well, guess what? even *he's* not going to listen to your pathetic ramblings anymore.
scene direction: pete she looks up at him frightened
pete: i'm all you've got now, debbie! do you hear me?
scene direction: pete points at her
pete: i am all you've got!
scene direction: she looks up at him, very afraid, and pushes herself up against a crate.
scene direction: pete suddenly realizes what he's doing, and calms down a bit. he looks down at his gnarled hands, then back at debbie.
pete: oh, my god.
scene direction: he has calmed enough now that he changes back to his regular self. he sees her sobbing, and looks at her remorsefully. he quickly gets down and kneels by her.
scene direction: pete whispering
pete: hey, debbie.
scene direction: pete she turns away
pete: hey, listen.
scene direction: pete quietly
pete: you know you shouldn't make me mad. huh? you know what happens.
scene direction: he takes her head in his hands and turns her to face him.
pete: debbie, please. are you all right?
scene direction: he kisses her forehead. she responds and puts her arms around his head.
scene direction: she strokes his hair as they hold each other tightly.
debbie: it's okay.
scene direction: she keeps petting him gently, her own breathing becoming calmer.
debbie: it's okay.
scene change: cut to the library. giles paces and talks while buffy, faith and willow listen.
giles: this creature is especially brutal. i believe the phrase coined by the coroner when describing mr. platt was 'pureed'. but he did confirm that platt was killed shortly before buffy found him.
faith: which means that he was killed during the day.
scene direction: willow elated
willow: yes!
scene direction: willow raises her fist
scene direction: they all give her looks.
willow: sorry. i got...
scene direction: willow lowers her hand
willow: i've just been... it's horrible, horrible.
scene direction: willow swallows
buffy: it's okay, will. we're all glad oz is off the hook.
giles: indeed.
scene direction: giles checks his watch
giles: shouldn't he be here by now? the sun sets at 5:30.
scene change: cut to the quad. oz looks around one last time and starts to head for the library. just then debbie comes running.
debbie: sorry i'm late.
scene direction: debbie smiles
debbie: did you bring the notes?
scene direction: oz notices her black eye
oz: yeah. um... you okay?
scene direction: oz hands her the notes
debbie: what? oh, yeah!
scene direction: debbie laughs
debbie: i'm such a klutz! i, um, oh...
oz: fell down? hit your... eye?
scene direction: pete watches them from around a corner.
debbie: doorknob.
scene direction: debbie laughs
debbie: um... thanks.
scene direction: debbie starts to go
scene direction: oz stops her with his hand
oz: hey, um...
scene direction: oz concerned
oz: if you wanna talk...
scene direction: debbie shakes her head and smiles
debbie: thanks again for the notes.
scene direction: debbie leaves
oz: yeah...
scene direction: he looks up at the sky again and quickly heads for the library. pete turns around and stalks off.
scene change: cut to the library.
giles: our task now is to determine what sort of killer we *are* dealing with. clearly, we're looking for a depraved, sadistic animal.
scene direction: oz comes in
oz: present.
scene direction: willow smiles, jumps up and goes over to him, pushing giles aside in her eagerness to reach him.
oz: hey, i may be a cold-blooded jelly doughnut, but my timing is impeccable.
scene direction: willow touches him with both hands, smiling
willow: but you aren't! i-i- it's-it's a kill-in-the-day monster! a hundred percent for sure.
scene direction: oz very relieved
oz: okay.
scene direction: oz smiles
scene direction: willow puts her arm around him and faces the group along with him, smiling.
giles: uh, i wish we had time to celebrate properly. however, we have two victims: jeff orkin and, uh, now platt. uh, maybe there's something they had in common.
faith: missing internal organs.
giles: besides that.
oz: debbie.
scene direction: oz giles looks at him
oz: well, victim number one, jeff. he was in jazz band with us. they used to horse around.
faith: they were screwing?
scene direction: they all give her a look.
oz: i don't think so, but he hid her music comp book once.
buffy: and we know that debbie knew platt. i mean, she was seeing him and way vocal about not having love for the guy.
oz: add this and stir. i just saw debbie a minute ago sporting a nasty black eye.
willow: okay, so pretend debbie wanted platt dead. maybe he fought back.
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: no. platt was dead in an instant.
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: he didn't even drop his cigarette.
scene direction: buffy has a thought
buffy: now, what if boyfriend pete's the one doling out the punishment?
giles: we should find them both immediately.
scene direction: he and buffy grab their coats.
oz: well, debbie was in the quad a minute ago.
giles: all right. we'll split up. um, faith, you and i team. willow, stick with buffy.
scene direction: willow gives oz a saddened look and follows the others out.
oz: and i'll... go lock myself in the cage.
scene change: cut to the girls' locker room. debbie is trying to hide her black eye with makeup. the door opens behind her, and buffy and willow enter.
scene direction: debbie just keeps on applying makeup.
buffy: it's tricky, covering a fresh shiner like that. you know what works?
debbie: what?
scene direction: debbie puts away her makeup
buffy: don't get hit.
scene direction: she walks up to debbie at the mirror.
buffy: what's going on, debbie? i'll bet the farm you know.
scene direction: debbie shakes her head
debbie: you're wrong. i don't know anything.
buffy: normally, i'd say, you wanna play 'i have a secret'? fine. but people are dying here.
scene direction: debbie looks at her and willow.
debbie: it... it's not his fault. i mean, he's not himself when he gets like this.
buffy: you mean pete.
scene direction: debbie upset
debbie: it's me. i make him crazy. he-he just does what he does because he loves me too much.
willow: but weren't mr. platt and jeff murdered by an animal?
buffy: pete's not like other guys, is he, debbie?
scene direction: debbie realizes they know more than they are letting on.
debbie: i-i've gotta go.
scene direction: she grabs her purse and starts to leave. buffy takes her by the arm and stops her.
buffy: you have to talk to us.
scene direction: buffy debbie shakes her head
buffy: we can't help you until you do.
debbie: i didn't ask for your help!
willow: well, when are you going to? i mean, if pete kills you, it'll pretty much be too late.
buffy: debbie, we're running out of time.
scene change: cut to the mansion. angel struggles with the chain. he yanks at it with all of his weight. the bracket pulls free of the wall and crashes to the floor. angel falls roughly onto his hands and knees. he quickly gets up, pulls the chain free of the bracket and runs out of the mansion.
scene change: cut to the locker room.
buffy: where can we find him?
debbie: i-i don't know.
buffy: you're lying.
debbie: what if i am? what are you gonna do about it?
willow: wrong question.
scene direction: buffy takes her by the arm again and pushes her up against the sink in front of the mirror.
buffy: look at yourself. why are you protecting him? anybody who really loved you couldn't do this to you.
scene direction: she takes a few steps away. debbie turns around to face them.
debbie: would they take him someplace?
buffy: probably.
scene direction: debbie shakes her head, sobbing
debbie: i could never do that to him.
scene direction: debbie willow sighs
debbie: i'm his everything.
scene direction: buffy disgusted
buffy: great. so what, you two live out your grimm fairy tale? two people are dead.
scene direction: debbie just shakes her head and says nothing.
buffy: who's gonna be next?
scene change: cut to the library. oz is alone in the cage, pacing, waiting to change.
scene direction: the door opens, and pete comes in and goes right up to the cage.
scene direction: pete angry
pete: since when do you touch my girl?
scene direction: pete grabs the cage
oz: hey, pete. this is kind of a bad time.
pete: well, i guess you didn't think about that when you put the moves on debbie!
scene direction: pete rattles the door
scene direction: oz glances up at the window to see if the sun has set yet.
oz: we talked, yeah, but it was move-free.
scene direction: pete rattles the cage hard.
oz: about this cage? when that sun sets...
scene direction: pete whispers threateningly
pete: you won't be alive to see it!
scene direction: he rattles the cage again and steps back from it, seething with anger.
oz: i'm serious. something's gonna happen that you... probably won't believe.
scene direction: pete screams as his head whips around and he transforms into his alter ego again. he looks at oz with murder in his eyes when the change is complete. oz is amazed, and takes a step backward.
oz: or you might.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the library. pete lunges at the cage and grabs the door. he yanks at it a few times, and it suddenly breaks free. he throws it aside and roars at oz. he runs into the cage, grabs oz and throws him out the door and to the floor.
scene change: cut to the girls' locker room. debbie is sitting on a changing bench, hugging herself and looking off into space, chanting repeatedly.
debbie: he does love me. he does love me.
buffy: this is useless.
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: we have to go. i have to find pete.
debbie: he does love me.
scene direction: willow tries to get debbie to stand up and go with her.
willow: come on.
scene direction: debbie resists
debbie: he does love me.
willow: i think we broke her.
debbie: he does love me. he does love me.
scene direction: buffy stops at the door
buffy: i think she was broken before this.
scene direction: buffy leaves
scene change: cut to the library. pete heaves oz up over his head and down onto the table. it smashes under the strain of the impact, and pete falls on top of oz because he didn't think to let go of him. he scrambles to his feet, pulls oz up and punches him hard in the face. he grabs oz by the shoulders and shakes him hard.
scene direction: pete very angrily
pete: did you kiss that whore? huh? did she like it?
scene direction: he heaves oz overhead again and onto the stairs. oz slides down them and turns around at the base. pete attacks him, but oz gets his leg up in time to stop him, and push kicks him off. pete goes sliding across the floor. oz looks through one of the arched windows at the sky as he gets up and sees that the sun has set. he looks over at pete, who is just now recovering from his fall.
oz: time's up. rules change.
scene direction: oz morphs into a werewolf and growls, baring his teeth at pete. he leaps onto pete, and they start to wrestle on the floor. oz tries to bite pete, but can't, so he kicks him away. pete scrambles to his feet and backhand punches oz as he attacks again. oz isn't fazed, and he leaps onto pete again, and they crash into the stairs. this time oz has pete's arm, and he bites hard, making pete scream out in agony.
scene change: cut to the halls, buffy, debbie and willow hear the scream and begin running to the library. giles and faith come running also from another hall.
giles: what was that?
scene change: cut to the library. they all come barging in. giles looks at the cage and sees it open. then he sees the two of them fighting on the stairs.
scene direction: oz has his jaw clamped hard on pete's arm, and pete repeatedly punches him in the gut.
giles: get the dart gun!
scene direction: buffy reaches behind the counter and grabs the dart rifle.
buffy: got it!
scene direction: she cocks it and takes aim past giles. debbie shoves buffy aside to protect her boyfriend.
debbie: pete, watch out!
scene direction: the gun goes off, and the dart hits giles in the hip.
giles: ow!
scene direction: pete finally manages to flip oz over onto the floor and get free of his jaws. buffy can't believe she shot giles.
buffy: oh! sorry!
giles: oh, right. bloody priceless.
scene direction: the drug takes effect quickly, and giles staggers and falls to the floor, pushing a table into oz as he tries to get away. oz runs through the door to behind the counter, leaps over it and runs out of the library. buffy tries to take aim but can't get a clear shot. buffy tosses the rifle to faith.
buffy: you get the wolf!
faith: got it!
scene direction: she runs out of the library with willow close behind. debbie turns and runs up the left-hand set of stairs to escape out through the stacks.
scene direction: buffy runs toward pete on the right-hand set of stairs. she stops halfway up to deliver a roundhouse kick to his head. he stumbles up the stairs and onto the upper lever floor. buffy pursues him as he gets to his feet. she punches him with a right followed by a left. he staggers over to the side of a bookcase, grabs it and shoves it over onto her. it lands on top of her with a loud thud, dumping its contents all around her. pete roars and runs from the library.
scene change: cut to the halls. pete comes running through a set of doors and clutches at his wounded arm. he looks back, expecting pursuers, then looks around frantically for an escape route. he runs around a corner just as buffy comes running through the doors also. cut to another part of the halls.
scene direction: pete comes running around another corner and stops, again looking for a way out. he spots a high window above a bank of lockers down an adjacent hall, leaps on top of them, pushes the window open and crawls through, leaving streaks of blood from his wound on the wall. buffy reaches the hall intersection and doesn't see him in any direction.
scene change: cut to elsewhere in the halls. werewolf oz comes bounding around a corner and runs down the hall past the camera. faith and willow are right behind him in hot pursuit.
scene change: cut to the supply room. debbie is sitting on the floor leaning against a crate, waiting for pete to show up. he comes in the door, and she jumps up and runs over to him.
debbie: pete! you're all right! god, you're all right.
scene direction: she throws her arms around him and hugs him close, but he doesn't hug her back.
debbie: she almost shot you. did you see? i stopped her.
scene direction: she lets go of her hug and looks at him.
debbie: you have to leave, get out of sunnydale. she knows.
pete: how did she know, debbie? did you run your big mouth?
scene direction: debbie frightened
debbie: no! she just knew. it seemed like she just knew.
pete: so you filled in the blanks!
scene direction: he shoves her to the floor.
scene direction: debbie screams
debbie: no!
scene direction: debbie looks up at him
debbie: no!
pete: but what did i expect from a screw-up like you?
scene direction: debbie shakes her head
debbie: i-i didn't... pete...
pete: you're nothing but a waste of space.
scene direction: he moves to grab her.
debbie: no!
scene change: cut to the halls. buffy looks up and sees the blood streaks around the high window.
scene change: cut to the stairs by the lounge. oz comes leaping down and stops by the vending machine. faith rushes down after him. he jumps on her, and she drops the gun as she's pulled down to the floor. behind her willow screams.
scene direction: cut outside. buffy crawls out through the window onto a roof. she steps to the edge, looks down and jumps. she looks around, and behind her through another window notices a lamp swinging from the ceiling. she rushes over to the door and forces it open. inside it seems quiet. she looks around and soon finds debbie lying dead on the floor behind a rack.
buffy: oh, god.
scene direction: she bends down to check her pulse. pete grunts and grabs her from behind. he throws her against some crates, and she hits the floor, dazed. pete smiles as he comes for her.
scene change: cut to the lounge. faith struggles to keep oz at bay and not get bitten.
scene direction: the rifle is under her legs, and she can't see it.
faith: where's the gun?
scene direction: faith screams
faith: where's the gun?!
scene direction: willow gets behind oz and yanks his tail.
willow: get off her!
scene direction: she starts to run down the hall. oz releases faith and starts to run after her.
willow: get the gun! get the gun!
scene direction: faith scrambles to her feet with the rifle.
willow: hurry!
scene direction: faith takes aim and shoots, hitting oz in the butt. he yelps and whimpers for a moment, then falls unconscious.
scene change: cut to the supply room. pete grabs buffy by the arm and backhand punches her.
pete: all the same!
scene direction: pete punches again
pete: you're all the same!
scene direction: he backhand punches a third time, and she falls from his grip. as he advances on her, she push kicks him off and away from her into a stack of crates. behind her the door opens, and she looks back to see angel standing there in his game face. he roars deeply and attacks pete. pete comes to meet him. angel swings his chains at him and gets him in the face. he swings the chains the other way and gets pete in the face again. pete lunges at angel and bends him backward over a crate with his hands around angel's throat. buffy stands up and steps back, watching them fight. pete pulls angel up from the crate and throws him to the floor. then he turns his attention back on buffy and starts to advance on her. behind him angel gets up and comes at him, wrapping the chains around his neck. he lifts pete over his back and slams him down on the floor. angel pulls at the chain, choking pete. buffy winces when she sees. angel gives pete's neck a twist and breaks it. he lets go, and pete falls dead to the floor. angel looks down at his kill, and begins to calm down. pete has changed back to his normal state. angel breathes heavily as he looks up and over at buffy. they just stare at each other for a moment while angel catches his breath. he slowly starts to go to her, and changes to his human face. he stops in front of her. she looks up at him, not knowing what to expect. after a long and intense look he finally speaks.
angel: buffy?
scene direction: he falls to his knees and holds her tightly. buffy is surprised by this turn of events and isn't sure what to do. angel just keeps holding her even tighter and starts to sob into her jacket.
angel: buffy...
scene direction: she finally seems to accept that he's back and sheds a few tears. her head and heart are too heavy with thoughts and emotions for her to speak. the camera cuts to a shot of them from a distance, with pete lying to one side and debbie in the foreground.
scene change: cut to the quad the next day. the group comes walking along the colonnade. willow and oz hold hands as do xander and cordelia.
willow: it's all over school, what happened with debbie and pete.
scene direction: except for the pete-was-a-monster part.
oz: yeah. a freshman told me that pete had eight iced cafe' mochas and just lost it.
buffy: that's better than the estrogen theory. i heard he took all of his mother's birth control pills.
cordelia: he didn't?
scene direction: cordelia to xander
cordelia: pete was a monster?
scene direction: cordelia xander nods
cordelia: where have i been?
xander: in your special place, cor, which is why i adore you.
cordelia: so, what's the true story? what happened?
willow: well, we got ahold of, uh, pete's lab books and stuff, and mr. science was doing a jekyll/hyde deal. he was afraid debbie was gonna leave him, so he mixed this potion to become super mas macho.
buffy: the only thing was, after a while, he didn't need the potion to turn into a bad guy. he did it just fine on his own.
cordelia: so it was like a real killing. he wasn't under the influence of anything?
buffy: just himself.
scene direction: she sees scott sitting by himself.
buffy: uh...
scene direction: buffy to the group
buffy: i'll see you guys later.
scene direction: buffy walks off
cordelia: great. now i'm gonna be stuck with serious thoughts all day.
scene change: xander raises his eyebrows at willow, and follows cordelia. willow and oz stay to see how it goes between buffy and scott. cut to scott. buffy walks up and sits down next to him.
buffy: i don't know what to say that's
scene direction: buffy inhales
buffy: not gonna sound stupid or obvious.
scott: i've been friends with them both since before we started school.
buffy: is there anything i can do?
scene direction: he looks at her for a long moment.
scott: thanks. i'm gonna be okay. it's just that you never really know what's going on inside somebody. do you? i mean, you think... if you care about them... but you never really do.
scene change: cut to the woods at night. the camera moves among the trees and bushes, low to the ground in slow motion. buffy narrates again from 'call of the wild'.
buffy: 'night came on, and a full moon rose high over the trees...' cut to the mansion. buffy watches as angel lies asleep on the floor.
buffy: '...lighting the land till it lay bathed in ghostly day. and the strain of the primitive remained alive and active.' cut to her. the camera closes in on her.
buffy: 'faithfulness and devotion, things born of fire and roof were his...' cut to angel. he moves slightly, and his face contorts in anguish and pain as he dreams.
buffy: '...yet he retained his wildness and wiliness.' cut to buffy. she is sitting on the floor leaning against the wall, watching him sleep and contemplating her life.
buffy: 'and from the depths of the forest, a call still sounded.'