scene change: *** prologue ***
scene change: a large park. the camera pans along some flowery foliage until it reaches a pair of green scaly legs firmly planted to the ground and a pair of human legs dangling and kicking from someone pinned high against a tree. the monster makes gurgling noises and low-pitched roars. cut to buffy being held against the tree by her neck. the monster's face has tentacles coming off of the back of his head as well as the front in place of lips. his teeth are placed vertically between the two center tentacles. his scaly green skin glistens with slime.
scene direction: buffy yells out desperately
buffy: nnnrrf! nnnrrf!
scene direction: near a picnic table xander is just coming to, apparently having been knocked around by the monster as well. at the table willow frantically searches through their bag of demon-killing implements.
willow: oh, god! demon! demon! what kills a demon?!
scene direction: buffy struggles with the monster's hand at her neck, but can't get it to budge and has a hard time breathing.
buffy: nnnrrf! nnnrrf!
scene direction: willow still searching
willow: oh, nerf! not nerf. knife!
scene direction: she finds a knife and runs with it to buffy's aid. she tosses the knife to buffy, who blindly grabs it from behind out of midair and stabs the monster in the chest. the monster immediately falls over dead, taking buffy down with it. willow and xander help her up.
buffy: okay. that was too close for comfort. not that slaying is ever comfy, but... you know what i mean?
scene direction: buffy takes a deep breath
buffy: if you guys hadn't been here to help...
willow: but, we were, and we did, and, and we're all fine.
scene direction: willow looks down at the monster
willow: isn't he gonna go poof?
buffy: mm, i guess these guys don't. we'll have to bury him or something. uhhf...
scene direction: they walk over to the picnic table.
buffy: makes you appreciate vamps, though. no fuss, no muss.
scene direction: buffy sits cross-legged on one end of the table, xander sits on the other and willow sits on the bench below and between them and grabs a drink.
xander: so how come faith was a no-show? i thought mucus-y demons were her favorites.
scene direction: xander munches on a snack
buffy: couldn't reach her... again. she hasn't been hanging out much.
scene direction: buffy reaches for a snack
xander: i detect worry.
buffy: a little bit. slaying's a rough gig. too much alone time isn't healthy. stuff gets pent-up.
scene direction: buffy munches the snack
willow: we should try to do more socializing with her.
xander: well, burial detail aside, does this cap us off for the day?
buffy: you got plans?
xander: i cannot stress enough how much i *don't* have plans.
buffy: no luck reaching cordelia?
xander: i've left a few messages. sixty... seventy... but you know what really bugs me?
scene direction: xander to willow
xander: okay, we kissed. it was a mistake. but i know that was positively the last time we were *ever* gonna kiss.
willow: darn tootin'!
xander: and they burst in, rescuing us, without even knocking? i mean, this is really *all* their fault.
buffy: your logic does *not* resemble our earth logic.
xander: mine is much more advanced.
willow: at least tomorrow's monday, another school day.
buffy: well, that's good. you know, focus on school. that's the strong willow way to heal.
willow: actually, i was more thinking oz will be there, and i can beg for forgiveness.
buffy: that works, too.
willow: i-i wanna be strong willow. but then i think i may never get to be close to oz again, and it's like all the air just goes out of the room.
buffy: i know the feeling.
xander: right. i mean, you went through it with angel, and you're still standing. so tell us, wise one, how do you deal?
buffy: i have you guys.
scene change: cut to cordelia's bedroom. she's sitting on her bed with the lights very low. she has a picture of herself, xander, willow and buffy all with their arms around each other, and is cutting each person off with a straight vertical cut. she lets the pieces fall into a bowl on a breakfast tray. in the background her answering machine plays back her messages.
machine: hey, it's xander. if you get this, call me.
scene direction: the last part of the picture left in her hand is of xander, and she cuts diagonally right through his face.
machine: hi! xander. i, uh... well, i'm in if you feel like calling.
scene direction: bye.
scene direction: cordelia's eyes and cheeks are heavy with tears. she sighs, takes a match and strikes it. she lights xander's part of the picture.
machine: hi, cordelia. um... if you get the chance, if we could talk, i'm here.
scene direction: she drops the lit piece into the bowl and holds the match to the others.
scene direction: they suddenly all burst into flame. the light of the flame shows just how tired, slagged and haggard cordelia has become.
machine: hey again! it's me. i'm here. again.
scene direction: she watches as the flames consume the image of xander.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: the halls at sunnydale high school. willow waits around the corner from oz's locker, peeking around every few seconds to see if he's arrived, looking very worried. buffy comes up behind her.
buffy: how's it goin'?
willow: oz hasn't been to his locker. there may be books in there that he needs, but still, he doesn't come.
scene direction: willow looks at the locker
buffy: has xander seen cordelia?
willow: i don't think so. but she is coming in today. amy saw her last night at the mall.
scene direction: willow looks at the locker
buffy: how was she?
willow: i don't know. amy said she looked pretty... scary.
scene change: cut to the student parking lot. cordelia has the top down on her convertible. she steps out looking very hot in a brown leather skirt and jacket with matching top, and alligator high heel d'orsay pumps with matching bag from prada. she confidently walks into school.
scene change: cut to the breezeway leading to the quad. she walks through, not looking quite as confident anymore since the other students are just passing her by. she stops when she sees harmony coming her way with some of her friends. when harmony sees cordelia, she stops, too, for an instant, but then approaches her, all smiles.
harmony: cordelia! you look amazing.
scene direction: cordelia, confidence restored, exchanges a non-touching hug and kisses on both cheeks.
harmony: oh. you have to meet anya.
scene direction: harmony pulls her to the front
harmony: she just moved here, and her dad just bought -- what was it -- oh. a utility. or something.
scene direction: anya to cordelia
anya: nice bag. prada?
cordelia: good call! most people around here can't tell prada from payless.
harmony: god, cordy, when i heard about... well, i mean, i couldn't believe it. but it was smart. you know, the injury thing? you take a week off, let everybody forget about the temporary insanity that was xander harris.
scene direction: cordelia raises her eyebrows
cordelia: xander who?
harmony: oh!
scene direction: they all exchange a little fake nervous laughter.
cordette: you know what you have to do. start dating. get back on the horse.
cordelia: oh, absolutely! i am ready to ride!
harmony: then i have just the stallion. he's *so* you.
scene direction: she leads her over to the outside stairs where jonathon is sitting, nursing a soft drink. he is taken aback by the sudden attention, and looks around to see if they didn't really mean someone else, but there is no one else. cordelia realizes she's been had.
scene direction: harmony giggles
harmony: i'm pretty sure he won't cheat on you. at least not for a while. plus, he's got a kill moped.
scene direction: she laughs, and she and her group walk off. jonathon gives her a sympathetic look, knowing what it's like, and goes back to nursing his soda.
scene change: cut to the halls. oz finally shows up at his locker. as he works his combination, willow comes around the corner and pretends it's a chance meeting.
willow: oz! wow.
scene direction: he stops opening his locker and slowly turns to face her.
willow: look at us, running into each other, as two people who go to the same school are so likely to do now and then.
oz: hey.
scene direction: oz starts to leave
scene direction: willow stops him
willow: oz, wait. please?
scene direction: he stops and reluctantly gives her his attention.
willow: what i did... when i think that i hurt you...
oz: yeah. you said all this stuff already.
willow: right, but... i wanna make it up to you. i mean, if you let me, i wanna try.
oz: just... you can leave me alone. i need to figure things out.
willow: but maybe if we talk about it, we could...
oz: look... i'm sorry this is hard for you. but i told you what i need. so i can't help feeling like the reason you want to talk is so you can feel better about yourself. that's not my problem.
scene direction: willow is left feeling completely helpless. oz goes on his way leaving her standing there.
scene change: cut to the stairs by the student lounge. cordelia walks down and turns down the hall. she sees xander come out of the cafeteria at the far end.
scene direction: when he spots her he stops. cordelia looks for a way to turn this to her advantage, and pulls an old boyfriend out of the crowd.
cordelia: hey, john lee. do i have something caught in my teeth?
scene direction: she smiles to expose her teeth and angles her head up so he can see. she shifts her head back and forth, and john lee dutifully follows her movements. from a distance it looks to xander like they are kissing.
scene direction: when he's seen enough, he goes back into the cafeteria. when cordelia sees that he's gone, she steps back from john lee.
cordelia: so... what's new? god, it's been, like, a gazillion years!
scene direction: john lee smiles
john lee: look, the guys are kinda down on me lately. coach has cut me back to second string. if anyone saw me hanging with xander harris' castoff on top of that... death, you know, but... maybe...
scene direction: john lee makes suggestive eyes
john lee: if you wanna go someplace private...
scene direction: cordelia surprised to find the tables turned
cordelia: what?
john lee: think about it.
scene direction: john lee leaves
scene direction: cordelia can't believe what a social leper she's suddenly become. she starts back down the hall, and is startled when anya bumps into her.
scene direction: anya smiles
anya: hey.
cordelia: go ahead. dazzle me with your oh-so-brilliant insults. just join the club.
anya: hardly. uh, actually, i've been looking for you. ever since we met this morning, i was, like, thank god there's one other person in this town who actually reads w.
cordelia: but harmony...
anya: oh, she follows me around. if that girl had an original thought, her head would explode.
scene direction: cordelia notices anya's pendant
cordelia: is that gucci?
anya: um... no. it's an actual old thing, sort of a, um... good luck charm my dad gave me.
cordelia: too bad i didn't have one of those pre-xander.
scene direction: they start down the hall.
anya: can i just say... men.
cordelia: second it.
anya: apart from being without class, the guy's obviously blind.
scene direction: deserves whatever he gets.
cordelia: i'm not even thinking about him. i am past it. i am living my life.
anya: still, i mean... don't you kinda wish...
cordelia: i don't wish. i act. starting now, xander harris is gonna get a bellyful of just how over him i am.
scene change: cut to the bronze that night. "tired of being alone", by the spies, plays in the background. cordelia is at the bar, dressed sexily in red, pretending to have great conversation with a guy. behind her sitting on the couch beneath the stairs, willow and buffy look glum, while xander pretends to be having fun, forcing himself to laugh. he looks back at cordelia, who seems to be enjoying her conversation. xander looks back at willow and buffy and forces out gales of laughter. willow and buffy exchange a look, then buffy gives xander a creepy look.
xander: excuse me. i need to be both giving *and* receiving of mirth.
scene direction: is it too much to ask for a little backup?
scene direction: buffy puts her hand on his knee
buffy: i'm here for you, xand. i'm support- o-gal.
scene direction: buffy takes her hand back
buffy: i just... feel a little weird about this us-against-cordelia thing. she's had a rough time.
scene direction: at the bar cordelia is still enjoying herself.
willow: it's true. cordelia *belongs* to the justified camp. she *should* make us pay. and pay and pay and pay... in fact, there's just not enough pay for what we...
scene direction: xander interrupts
xander: look, you want to do guilt-a-palooza, fine, but i'm done with that. starting this minute, i'm gonna grab ahold of that crazy little thing called life and let it do its magical little heal-y thing. what's done is done. let's be in the moment. behold the beauty that is now.
scene direction: xander bounces his eyebrows
xander: who's with me?
buffy: he's actually making sense. we're young and free in america. how dare we be spun by love or the lack of same?
willow: absolutely. i-it's self-indulgent. i-i'm in. i'm on the joy train.
scene direction: willow smiles
scene direction: they all put on bright smiles and radiate them into the bronze. slowly their luster fades, and they all end up looking glum again.
buffy: that didn't work. who wants chocolate?
scene direction: willow and xander both raise their hands.
buffy: i'm up.
scene direction: she gets up and heads for the cappuccino bar.
xander: look at her.
scene direction: xander indicates cordelia
xander: tears of a clown, baby. or is it... grins of a sad person?
scene direction: xander reaches over to willow in his old familiar way
xander: or maybe it's...
willow: xander, your hand.
scene direction: xander jerks back his hand
xander: oops! sorry. but why 'oops'? i mean, we always touch digits. it's a friend thing. comfort. like chocolate.
scene direction: willow shrugs
willow: maybe it used to be, but since we... it's different.
scene direction: willow xander looks away
willow: i-i'm sorry. but if i wanna make things right with oz, my hands,
scene direction: willow xander looks back
willow: my -- all my stuff -- has to be for him only.
scene direction: xander understands, but he sure isn't happy about it.
scene change: cut to the cappuccino bar. while waiting in line, buffy notices cordelia talk briefly with anya and say goodbye. as she goes a boy bumps into her, jostling her wound. she puts her hand over it as she walks out.
scene direction: buffy decides to follow.
scene direction: cut outside. buffy catches up with her.
buffy: hey, cordelia, wait a second.
scene direction: cordelia stops and faces her
cordelia: did xander send you to beg for him?
scene direction: because if he did...
buffy: no. i'm a free agent, i promise. i just wanted to see how you are.
cordelia: never been better.
scene direction: cordelia starts to go
scene direction: buffy follows
buffy: cordelia, i know what it's like to be hurt by someone.
scene direction: buffy cordelia faces her
buffy: hurt so much that you don't think you're gonna make it. but i told my friends how i felt, and you know what? it got a little better.
scene direction: suddenly a vampire jumps down behind buffy and swings at her head, but she middle blocks it and punches him in the face, which sends him to the pavement on his side. buffy punches him in the face while he's down, reaches for his shirt and yanks him back up to his feet. she spins him around and lets go of his shirt. he staggers backward a couple of steps, but keeps his footing. he advances and does two roundhouse kicks, which buffy low blocks. he tries a wide punch to buffy's head, but she ducks it and rises back up to deliver a roundhouse kick to his side. this sends him stumbling backward right at cordelia.
buffy: cordelia, look...
scene direction: cordelia has no time to react, and gets knocked into a pile of garbage.
buffy: ...out.
scene direction: the vampire gets back up to his feet and comes at buffy, jumping into a half spinning crescent kick, which buffy easily ducks. she grabs him when he comes at her again and knees him in the stomach, then flips him over onto his back. she pulls out her stake and jams it home. the vampire bursts into ashes. buffy turns her attention back to cordelia, who flicks a few pieces of trash from her dress and slowly climbs out of the garbage heap. buffy looks at her apologetically. behind her she hears the laughter of a group of girls, so she quickly tosses aside her stake. harmony and some of her friends walk by, look cordelia over and keep laughing as they go. after they've gone, cordelia vents on buffy.
cordelia: you know what i've been asking myself a *lot* this last week? why me? why do *i* get impaled? why do *i* get bitten by snakes? why do *i* fall for incredible losers? and you know, i think i've finally figured it out, what my problem is? it's...
scene change: cut to the quad at school the next day. cordelia and anya walk together.
cordelia: ...buffy summers. that's when all my troubles started.
scene direction: cordelia winces in pain and holds her side
cordelia: when she moved here.
anya: are you okay?
cordelia: oh, i just pulled some stitches last night. know why?
scene direction: cordelia looks in buffy's direction
cordelia: surprise. it was buffy's fault.
scene direction: anya follows cordelia's gaze and sees buffy and company sitting on a bench. harmony interrupts cordelia and anya.
harmony: oh, hey, it's garbage girl. loved the look last night, cor.
scene direction: dumpster chic for the dumped.
scene direction: she and her troop rudely walk right between cordelia and anya, giggling and smiling. cordelia looks down in embarrassment. anya takes her pendant off.
anya: here. i think you need this more than i do right now.
scene direction: cordelia lifts her hair away from her neck and lets anya put it on.
cordelia: yeah, i can use some luck.
scene direction: cordelia eyes buffy
cordelia: and a stick with pointy, sharp bits. if that buffy wasn't... i swear. she's a pain.
anya: but xander, he's an utter loser. don't you wish...
cordelia: i never would've looked twice at xander if buffy hadn't made him marginally cooler by hanging with him.
anya: really?
scene direction: anya looks over at buffy
cordelia: yeah, i swear! i wish buffy summers had never come to sunnydale.
scene direction: anya turns back to cordelia, who gasps to see that her face has suddenly become very wrinkled and raw-looking, the embodiment of anyanka, patron saint of all women scorned.
anyanka: done.
scene direction: the picture fades to white.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: the picture fades from white back to the quad at sunnydale high.
scene direction: cordelia looks around her. anya is gone. buffy, willow and xander are not sitting at the bench anymore. there are far fewer students in general. the place is, in fact, rather a mess. garbage and palm leaves are strewn about the quad.
cordelia: anya?
scene direction: suddenly she notices that she no longer has her injury. anya's pendant, however, is still around her neck. slowly she begins to figure it out.
cordelia: 'i wish buffy summers had never come to sunnydale.'
scene direction: cordelia smiles
scene direction: she was, like... a good fairy. a scary, veiny... good fairy. (smiles widely)
scene direction: she laughs as she heads into the halls. cut into the halls. just like outside, there are far fewer students inside. everyone is dressed in dark and drab clothing. cordelia is the standout in her bright turquoise dress. she sees harmony and her friends at her locker, and hesitates.
scene direction: harmony closes her locker and sees her.
harmony: where have you been?!
scene direction: she approaches cordelia, and her friends follow. cordelia gives them a careful smile.
harmony: ted chervin just totally went for third with ginger in front of everybody.
scene direction: cordette to cordelia
cordette: love the dress. it's so daring.
scene direction: harmony nods in agreement. john lee walks up to them.
john lee: cordelia.
cordelia: yeah?
scene direction: john lee pulls her aside
john lee: look, every guy on campus has probably asked, but if you're not going to the winter brunch with anyone, i'd be honored, and we'd have fun.
scene direction: cordelia considers her response
cordelia: i'll get back to you.
john lee: really?
cordelia: yeah.
scene direction: cordelia smiles
john lee: great!
scene direction: he heads down the hall, a happy man. harmony steps over to her.
harmony: cordy, you reign!
cordelia: i do? i mean, i do. so what's with the winter brunch thing?
scene change: cut to class. it is less than half full, but even so most of the students sit toward the back. the bell rings. the teacher hurriedly gathers his things.
teacher: alright. now, don't forget, tomorrow we have our, uh, monthly memorial, so, uh, there's no class.
scene direction: he rushes out of the room. the students also make a point of getting out of there quickly.
cordelia: what's the rush?
harmony: oh, you know, my mom hates it when i'm late.
cordelia: since when? aren't we going out tonight?
scene direction: cordelia gets up
cordette: curfew starts in an hour.
cordelia: curfew? come on, i'm in a really good mood! let's go to the bronze!
scene direction: harmony and her friends all stop and give cordelia a disbelieving look.
harmony: is that a joke?
cordelia: oh! the bronze isn't cool in this reality. i've gotta make these little adjustments.
scene direction: cordelia smiles
scene direction: harmony and cordette exchange a look.
harmony: cordy, what's with you?
scene direction: harmony the others leave
harmony: i mean, you wear this come-bite-me outfit, you make jokes about the bronze, and you're acting a little schizo.
cordelia: you're right. i just... well, i bumped my head yesterday, and i keep forgetting stuff. not that i care, but xander harris, he's miserable, right? and that willow freak he hangs with, not even a blip on the radar screen, right?
scene direction: cordelia smiles
scene direction: harmony confused
harmony: well, yeah. they're dead.
scene direction: cordelia's smile fades, not at all sure how she feels about that.
scene direction: harmony rolls her eyes and leaves the room.
scene change: cut to what cordelia thinks is the student parking lot. the lot is completely empty and full of fallen leaves.
cordelia: okay. not funny.
scene direction: cordelia stops a passing janitor
cordelia: hey! you! where did you put my car?
janitor: pardon?
cordelia: my auto! el convertablo?
janitor: you students aren't allowed to drive, and you know it.
cordelia: what?!
janitor: go on now, miss. you better get in before the sun sets.
scene direction: the janitor hurries off. cordelia is now very confused. she starts on her way home.
scene change: cut to a street in town. the sun cinema is closed. the last shop pulls a metal gate across its storefront. the street is dirty. a smashed car just sits in the middle of it. in the distance cordelia can hear sirens and screams as she walks along. suddenly xander appears in front of her, wearing only a white t-shirt and black leather jacket and pants. she startles and stops short.
xander: well, whadaya know? cordelia chase.
cordelia: what is this? some kind of sick joke? harmony told me you were dead.
scene direction: xander plays her game
xander: now, why would she say something like that?
scene direction: let's think.
cordelia: listen to me. we have to find buffy. she'll figure out a way to save us. she was supposed to be here, and as much as it kills me to admit it... things were better when she was around.
xander: buffy? the slayer?
cordelia: no! buffy the dog-faced girl! duh! who do you think i'm talking about?
willow: bored now.
scene direction: she slowly walks up to them. she is also dressed in black leather. the bodice of her outfit is trimmed in red lace.
willow: this is the part that's less fun. when there isn't any screaming.
cordelia: what's up with you two and the leather?
scene direction: willow to xander
willow: play now?
xander: it's not that i don't appreciate your appetite, will, but i thought we agreed it was my turn.
scene direction: willow whines and brushes her hand against xander's chest.
cordelia: no. no! no way! i wish us into bizarro land, and you guys are still together?! i cannot win!
xander: probably not.
scene direction: xander vamps out
xander: but i'll give you a head start.
scene direction: cordelia gasps
cordelia: no!
scene direction: she drops her bag and begins to run.
willow: i love this part.
scene direction: they kiss passionately with lots of tongue. then xander turns his attention to the chase.
xander: you love all the parts.
scene direction: willow follows at a walk as xander runs after cordelia. he jumps up, runs over the smashed car and jumps down behind her, grabs her by the neck and throws her down to the street. she rolls to a stop, unconscious.
willow: no fun. she didn't even hardly fight.
scene direction: suddenly a van comes screeching around the corner.
xander: aw, swell. it's the white hats.
scene direction: the van screeches to a stop next to cordelia, and giles jumps out with a large cross in hand to ward them off. they have to back away. at the driver's seat oz has the crossbow trained on them. larry and nancy jump out of the sliding door, he with a stake held ready, she with another cross.
giles: i've got them! get the girl!
scene direction: larry and nancy pick cordelia up and carry her into the van. xander and willow growl angrily as they watch their prize being stolen from them.
scene direction: when larry and nancy have cordelia safely inside, giles hops back in, they slam the doors shut and take off.
scene change: cut to the library. cordelia is laid out on the large center table.
oz: how's she doing?
giles: her pulse is strong.
nancy: what was she doing wearing that? everyone knows that vampires are attracted to bright colors.
larry: that's cordelia. it's better to look good than to feel alive.
giles: uh, go and, uh, watch the perimeters in case they follow.
scene change: cut to the bronze. "dedicated to pain", by plastic, blares loudly as xander and willow approach the club. a couple of the vampires standing outside feast on fresh victims caught out after dark. the two of them go into the club and check out the happenings inside. there are several cages containing terrified humans suspended a few feet from the floor.
scene direction: willow reaches in to one and strokes his cheek. they head toward the back of the club, past the pool tables where a vampire has a wayward biker tied to all four corners. xander runs his hand across the man's chest.
scene direction: xander to the vampire
xander: slap my hand, dead soul man.
scene direction: they shake hands, and xander and willow continue into the back. a guard vampire holds the curtain aside for them to enter. when he sees them come in, the master rises from his throne. his two favored vampires come to stand before him.
master: ahh. xander... willow... hungry?
scene direction: he grabs a girl by the hair and lifts her by it. the girl remains silent with fear, but keeps her eyes fixed on the master.
scene direction: master disgustedly
master: i've lost my appetite for this one. she keeps looking at me. i'm trying to eat, and she *looks* at me.
scene direction: he notices willow's desire for a kill, and turns the girl's head toward her.
master: go on!
scene direction: willow smiles up at xander, who gives her a look of approval. she turns back to the master and vamps out. the master shoves the girl over to her. she catches her in her arms with her head laid back and bites her hard. xander, as always, is impressed with her zest for a fresh drink.
master: i remember that lust for the kill.
scene direction: master sits back down on his throne
master: now... what news on the rialto?
xander: had a prime kill. an old crush, actually, till that wannaslay librarian showed up.
master: he'll be dealt with soon enough.
scene direction: willow comes back to xander's side, licking her fingers.
xander: weird thing: girl kept talking about buffy. 'gotta get buffy here.' isn't that what they called the slayer?
scene direction: willow strokes his chest
willow: hmm. buffy. ooo. scary.
xander: someone has to talk to her people. that name is striking fear in nobody's hearts.
scene direction: master stands up
master: she talked of summoning the slayer here, now, at this time, and you didn't kill her?
willow: well, they had crosses.
master: the plant begins operation in less than twenty-four hours.
scene direction: master steps up to them
master: you will find this girl.
scene direction: master strokes their cheeks
master: you will kill her before she contacts the slayer. or i'll see you two kissing daylight.
scene change: cut to the library. cordelia groans as she regains consciousness. giles comes rushing down to her from the stacks and tries to keep her from getting up too fast.
giles: hey! hey...
scene direction: cordelia frantic
cordelia: giles! it's all my fault! i wasn't... i made this *stupid* wish...
giles: come on. please lie...
cordelia: no! you have to get buffy. buffy changes it.
scene direction: cordelia giles lets go of her
cordelia: it wasn't like this. it was better. i mean, the clothes alone...
scene direction: cordelia giles takes off his glasses
cordelia: but people were happy. mostly. and...
scene direction: wait. (slides off of the table) why are you here and she's not? i mean, y-you were her watcher.
scene direction: giles is amazed by what he's hearing.
giles: h-how do you know i was a watcher? i've never...
scene direction: they hear a series of thumps and taps outside.
cordelia: what?
scene direction: giles looks around carefully and puts his glasses back on.
cordelia: what?
giles: i thought i heard something.
scene direction: he goes into the cage and grabs a large cross and a stake from the weapons cabinet.
giles: now, i want you to start again and explain everything very carefully.
scene direction: before he can come out, he finds the cage door slammed shut on him.
willow: you're in a big cage.
scene direction: she taunts him with the key. xander has cordelia pinned against him with his hand over her mouth. willow looks over at him.
xander: not too bright, book guy.
scene direction: willow turns back to giles, who slams the cross against the cage, forcing willow back. she growls angrily. xander forces cordelia closer.
xander: so you're a watcher, huh?
scene direction: xander smiles widely
xander: watch this.
scene direction: he lets go of cordelia's mouth and sinks his teeth into her neck. giles rattles the cage hard in protest, helpless to do anything. willow smiles at him, then turns around and bites cordelia also on the other side of her neck. together they suck her dry. xander reaches his arm around willow's head and caresses her hair. giles rages in anger as he is forced to watch. in another moment cordelia is dead, and xander pushes her lifeless body aside, letting it fall to the floor. xander starts out of the library. willow gives giles a smile and tosses the key at him as she also leaves. giles pants heavily as he looks down at the body of the latest victim of these two vampires.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the library. giles swings at the cage door with a double-bladed battle- ax. it soon gives way and opens, and he rushes out to check on cordelia.
scene direction: he feels for a pulse, but he's too late. larry and oz come running in through the stacks.
larry: they hit us right outside.
giles: nancy?
oz: she's dead.
scene direction: giles takes the news as well as can be expected.
giles: um... would you mind... could you take her to the incinerator? i have some business to...
scene direction: larry and oz set themselves to their grim task. oz goes around to get her legs, larry grabs her by the shoulders. just as they are about to go, giles notices the pendant around her neck.
giles: wait a moment.
scene direction: he takes it off, and the boys carry her body away.
scene change: cut to the bronze. the master takes a fresh hot demitasse of blood espresso from his machine and sips it. he blows on it and takes another sip. behind him xander and willow report back from their mission. the master turns to face them.
xander: the deed is done.
master: you killed the girl that sought the slayer?
xander: it was too easy.
willow: i felt cheap.
master: excellent. the opening will commence as scheduled.
scene direction: master takes another sip
scene direction: willow approaches
willow: so, you're pleased?
master: ecstatic.
willow: then... can i play with the puppy?
master: ooo.
scene direction: master smiles
master: be my guest.
scene direction: willow smiles as the master hands her the keys.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he's on the phone with buffy's watcher.
giles: yes, i understand, but it's imperative that i see her. here.
scene direction: giles listens
giles: well... when will you?
scene direction: giles listens
giles: yeah, well, you are her watcher. i'd expect her to at least check in to...
scene direction: giles listens
giles: yes, i'm aware that there's a great deal of demonic activity in cleveland.
scene direction: (listens) it... well, it happens, you know, that, that sunnydale is on a hellmouth. (listens) it, it is so! (listens) well... just... just give her the message, if you ever see her again. (hangs up)
scene change: cut to an external view of sunnydale by day. the camera pans over the red spanish roofs typical of most of town. in the distance there is a low haze over the ocean.
scene change: cut to the bronze. cut inside. willow approaches what can only be described as a jail cell in the basement.
willow: bored now.
scene direction: she walks over to the wall of whips, chains and other instruments of torture.
willow: daytime's the worst.
scene direction: willow runs her hand over the leather
willow: cooped up for hours. can't hunt.
scene direction: she takes a pair of iron shears and clinks it along the bars of the cell.
willow: but the master said i could play.
scene direction: inside the figure begins to stir.
willow: isn't that fun, puppy?
scene direction: she unlocks the cell door and swings it in.
willow: aw... puppy's being all quiet. come on. don't be a spoilsport.
scene direction: the man groans as she straddles him. she grabs him by the hair and jerks his head up. it's angel, and he moans from the rough treatment. he seems constantly short of breath.
willow: guess what today is?
scene direction: she runs the tip of the shears along his chin and down his throat.
willow: today the plant opens. it's a big party.
scene direction: she licks him from the base of his ear to his forehead and runs her sharp fingernails along his neck.
willow: you remember i told you about the plant? all those people you tried to save? it's gonna be quick for them. not for you, though. it's gonna be slow for you.
scene direction: she flips him over onto his back and straddles his stomach. he lets out a painful moan.
willow: that's right, puppy... willow's gonna make you bark.
scene direction: willow smiles
scene direction: he cries out when she rips open his shirt to reveal several very deep and bloody wounds on his chest. when she touches them he flinches hard.
willow: oh... maybe i went too hard on you last time.
scene direction: behind her xander strikes a wooden kitchen match with his thumbnail and tosses it onto angel's chest. angel cries out in pain.
xander: too hard? no such thing.
willow: watch it with those things. you almost got my hair.
xander: sorry. got carried away.
scene direction: he tosses her the large box of matches.
willow: don't you want to?
xander: no, thanks, baby. i just wanna watch you go.
scene direction: willow smiles and turns her full attention on angel. she lights another match, and the screen cuts to black. angel screams in agony.
scene change: cut to the library. giles is in his office while oz tunes the crossbow and larry carves stakes in the main area.
giles: here it is! i've found it.
scene direction: giles comes out of his office
giles: look.
scene direction: he sets down a book which is opened to a page with a sketch of cordelia's pendant.
giles: it's what, um, cordelia was wearing. it's the, the, uh, symbol of, of anyanka.
oz: i don't think i know her.
giles: well, no. um, anyanka is a, sort of a patron saint of scorned women.
scene direction: giles sits on the table
larry: what does she do?
giles: uh, sh-she grants wishes.
oz: so cordelia wished for something? well, if it was a long, healthy life, she should get her money back.
giles: she said something about everything being different, that the...
scene direction: the world wasn't supposed to be like this. it was, um, better. before.
larry: okay. the entire world sucks because some dead ditz made a wish?
scene direction: larry gets looks from giles and oz
larry: i just, i just want it clear.
giles: she said the, uh... the slayer was supposed to be here, was, um, meant to have been here already.
oz: certainly would've helped.
giles: yes. i tried calling her, but, um...
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: look, i'm, i'm, i'm gonna have to... research this anyanka thing further. um, i have some more... volumes at, at home. you two, two get some sleep.
scene direction: giles goes
oz: watch your back.
scene change: cut to the street. giles drives along in his ancient citroen. as he drives by a park he sees a bunch of people being herded into a stepvan.
scene direction: he stops his car, grabs his large cross and rushes over to help. he holds the cross up to the two vampires, who are forced to back away, and yells to the people in the van.
giles: run!
scene direction: when the people have all run away, he turns to run back to his car, but a third vampire slams the rear van door into his face, knocking him flat on his back. they try to grab him to load up, but the one at his feet suddenly finds himself flying through the air and landing hard on his back. the other two attack, but meet with similar fates. the first one runs at his attacker again, but gets staked. the attacker grabs another and stakes him. the others flee. giles looks up at the person standing at his feet.
giles: buffy summers?
buffy: that's right. wanna tell me what i'm doing here?
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: giles' apartment. buffy looks around, bored out of her mind. giles is on the stairs looking through a book, and finally finds something.
giles: ah! ah! ah! yes!
scene direction: giles glances at buffy and stands up
giles: here.
scene direction: giles reads
giles: 'in order to defeat anyanka, one must destroy her powercenter.
scene direction: giles walks down the steps
giles: this should reverse all the wishes she's granted, rendering her mortal and powerless again.' you see? without her powercenter, she'd j-just be a-a-an ordinary woman again, and all this would be, um... well, different.
scene direction: giles gets no reaction
giles: well, i'd say that my, my watcher muscles
scene direction: giles closes the book
giles: haven't completely atrophied after all.
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses
scene direction: buffy unimpresssed
buffy: great. what's her powercenter?
giles: um, well, um, um...
scene direction: giles glances at the book again
giles: it doesn't say.
buffy: why don't i just put a stake through her heart?
scene direction: buffy goes to his kitchen bar
giles: she's not a vampire.
buffy: mm, well, you'd be surprised how many things that'll kill.
scene direction: buffy sniffs a liqueur bottle
giles: i don't want to kill her, miss summers. i want to reverse whatever effect she's had on this, this... world.
scene direction: she puts the bottle back down and turns to face him.
buffy: you're taking an awful lot on faith here, jeeves.
giles: giles.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: kill the bad fairy... destroy the bad fairy's powercenter, whatever, and all the troubles go away?
giles: yeah, well, i'm sure it's not that simple, but...
scene direction: buffy interrupts
buffy: world is what it is. we fight. we die. wishing doesn't change that.
giles: i have to believe in a better world.
buffy: go ahead. i have to live in this one.
scene direction: she strolls over to his chess table, lifts her right leg up to set her boot on its edge and spits into her hand to literally give it a spit shine.
giles: cordelia said she knew that i was meant to be your watcher. she said she knew you.
scene direction: buffy works her spit into the leather
buffy: she's probably just a big fan.
giles: the master sent his most vicious disciples to kill her. now, she, she must have posed some threat to him.
scene direction: giles puts his glasses back on
scene direction: buffy suddenly attentive
buffy: the master?
giles: um, supreme vampire around these parts. he, he lives on the outskirts of town in an old club.
buffy: you know where he lives, and no one's ever tried to take him out?
giles: people have tried.
buffy: well, point the way. i might as well do some good while i'm in this town.
scene direction: buffy goes to get her weapons
giles: you can't just walk in there and...
buffy: look, you wanna stay here and play make-believe, fine.
scene direction: buffy puts her crossbow strap over her shoulder
buffy: i'm not gonna be any help to you anyway. there's only one thing i'm good at.
giles: at least let's muster some kind of force.
buffy: i don't play well with others. now, i'm gonna ask you this once, and then i'm gonna get testy.
scene direction: giles gives in and tosses his book onto his desk.
buffy: where's this club?
scene change: cut to the bronze. buffy whips aside the curtains and comes out of the master's sitting area. she strolls through the club and sees the hanging cages, the ropes dangling from the pool tables, and everything for the most part put away as though the place were just closed for the day.
scene direction: eveything, that is, except for the dead boy in one of the cages.
scene change: cut to the stairs to the basement. buffy comes down quickly and finds the cell where angel is chained to the wall. he is shivering hard. she looks around a bit as she walks up to the bars. he looks up at her, and a look of recognition appears on his face. she in turn just gives angel a blank look, turns and starts to walk away.
angel: buffy.
scene direction: she stops in her tracks.
angel: buffy summers.
scene direction: she turns to face angel and gives him an inquiring look. angel gets another look at her, and now he's sure.
scene direction: angel weakly
angel: it's you. i mean... you don't remember. how could you?
buffy: how did you know my name?
angel: i waited. i waited here for you. but you never... i was supposed to help you.
scene direction: buffy huffs
buffy: you were gonna help me.
scene direction: angel weakly
angel: the master rose. he let me live... to punish me. i kept hoping maybe you'd come. my destiny.
scene direction: buffy huffs
buffy: is this a get-in-my-pants thing? you guys in sunnydale talk like i'm the second coming.
angel: i'm sorry. i just meant...
scene direction: buffy interrupts
buffy: look, i don't have time for stories. where's the master?
angel: they're at his factory. it starts tonight.
buffy: factory?
scene direction: angel tries to move
angel: i
scene direction: angel grunts
angel: i can take you there.
scene direction: buffy is wary of the whole situation, but decides she can at least give him a chance. she kicks in the door to the cell and approaches angel.
scene direction: she reaches behind him to get at his chains, but in doing so the cross around her neck hangs down in his face, and he flinches from it. buffy reacts, jerks back and drops the chains.
buffy: oh, you gotta be *kidding* me!
scene direction: she stomps out of the cell.
angel: wait! i won't hurt you.
scene direction: buffy faces him
buffy: no. you'll leave that to your master.
angel: you don't believe i wanna help you?
scene direction: he makes a hard effort to stand up and opens his shirt to show her his wounds.
angel: believe i want him dead.
scene direction: she stares at his wounds for a long moment.
scene change: cut to the master's factory. the camera pans from a control panel across the crowd of gathering vampires, past a wooden cage full of humans and the machine waiting in front of it, and over to the master up on a stage.
master: vampires, come! behold the technical wonder, which is about to alter the very fabric of our society. some have argued that such an advancement goes against our nature. they claim that death is our art. i say to them... well, i don't say anything to them because i kill them. undeniably we are the world's superior race.
scene direction: master the camera closes in on him
master: yet we have always been too parochial, too bound by the mindless routine of the predator. hunt and kill, hunt and kill. titillating? yes.
scene direction: practical? hardly. meanwhile, the humans, with their plebeian minds, have brought us a truly demonic concept (spreads his arms) mass production!
scene direction: vampires cheer
vampires: yeah! yeah!
xander: we really are living in a golden age.
scene direction: he is visibly moved by the proceedings. willow tilts her head toward him and smiles.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he has several bags and bowls of various herbs and powders laid out on his chess table. he grabs a couple of them and goes over to his desk with them, where he has a large golden goblet already smoldering. he pulls bits of an herb from a bushel and drops them into the goblet as he recites the ritual to summon anyanka.
giles: oh... anyanka... i-i beseech thee...
scene direction: giles puts on his glasses to read
giles: um...
scene direction: giles turns a page
giles: in the name of all women scorned...
scene direction: giles adds more herb to the fire
giles: come before me.
scene direction: he looks around his apartment to see where she might appear. she does so, but in the shadows under the stairs to his loft, where he doesn't notice. slowly she walks into the dim light of the room.
giles: oh!
scene direction: giles lets out a nervous breath
anyanka: do you have any idea what i do to a man who uses that spell to summon me?
scene direction: giles gazes at her with a look of foreboding.
scene change: cut to the factory.
master: bring on the first!
scene direction: at the cage the vampires shove a couple of the humans back from the gate, lift off the crossbar and open it. oz realizes what's about to happen, but can't do anything. two vampires go into the cage and choose a victim.
vampire: you!
scene direction: he points to and grabs cordette. xander and willow look on as she screams and is dragged out.
cordette: nooo! no! please! no! help me! no! noooo!
scene direction: some of the men in the cage attempt to resist and help her, but they are easily knocked aside. once they have her outside, one of them shocks her with a cattle prod. her body goes limp. the gates to the cage are closed, and the mortals all gather to watch in horror. the two vampires drag her to the end of the machine. one of them lifts her into a long stainless steel pan like the ones used for autopsies and lays her down in it.
master: she's still alive, you see, for the freshness.
scene direction: the machine is turned on, and the pan moves along the conveyor to the blood draining station. on either side are four arms that extend over cordette, each with a very large needle on the end. they all plunge into her body and begin to suck the blood from it. at one end of the contraption is a tap for sampling the blood, and a glass is filled for the master to taste. in the cage larry and oz watch in disbelief. at the back of the factory buffy and angel peek around a corner. on the machine cordette lets out her last few muffled sounds and dies. xander and willow watch with anticipation.
scene direction: angel to buffy
angel: what's the plan?
scene direction: buffy holds up her stake
buffy: don't fall on this.
scene direction: the glass with the blood sample is passed up to the master. buffy and angel calmly make their way through the crowd of vampires toward the stage. the master rubs his fingers in anticipation of the first taste of blood from his new machine. the arms extract themselves from cordette, and the pan with her body moves along the conveyor for disposal. the glass of blood is handed up to the master. he holds it up to his subjects for a toast.
master: welcome to the future.
vampires: to the future! to the future! to the future!
scene direction: buffy raises her crossbow at the master and fires. instantly the master pulls xander in front of him, and the bolt hits him in the right shoulder. buffy aims the crossbow at another target, but it gets knocked from her hand. panic sets in among the vampires. buffy ducks a wide swing from a vampire. she jumps up and brings her foot down to smash the back of his knee. angel attacks a vampire by the cage, punches him in the face and shoves him aside. he rushes over to the gate and throws off the crossbar.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: uh-oh. puppy got out.
scene direction: angel throws open the cage's gate and starts pulling people out. buffy twists a vampire's arm around, immobilizing him, and does a jumping roundhouse kick to his gut. the crowd of humans streams into the fray.
scene direction: oz reaches up and breaks a piece off of one of the wooden cage bars. he immediately jams it into the back of a vampire. all around humans and vampires fight. xander and willow finally decide it's time to join in and jump down from the stage.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. anyanka slowly approaches giles, who bravely stands his ground.
giles: cordelia chase. what did she wish for?
anyanka: i had no idea her wish would be so exciting! brave new world. i hope she likes it.
scene change: cut to the factory. buffy ducks a swing from a vampire and repeats her earlier maneuver of stomping on the back of his knee. she grabs him by his shirt and throws him over the conveyor. he pulls a section of it over with him. buffy punches another vampire in the face. yet another one tries to grab her by the neck from behind, and she spins around and elbows him in the face. as the second one comes at her again, she side steps him and sends him barreling into the third one.
scene direction: gut to giles' apartment.
giles: you're gonna change it back.
scene direction: anyanka finally gets too close, and he takes a couple of steps back.
giles: i'm not afraid of you. your only power lies in the wishing.
scene direction: anyanka makes a sudden and hard grab for his neck.
anyanka: wrong!
scene direction: she lifts him and slams him against a wall.
scene change: cut to the factory. willow swings at buffy, but misses as buffy ducks the punch. buffy backhand punches willow in the face and follows up with a roundhouse kick to her stomach. willow falls to the ground. buffy senses something behind her and turns around in time to backhand punch an incoming vampire. she spins around again, this time to face xander.
scene direction: she grabs onto his shoulder and yanks his body down to meet her knee, getting him twice in the gut and then in the face. she turns again to find her next target. xander gets to his feet and comes at buffy. angel sees him make his move, and runs to buffy's aid.
angel: buffy, look out!
scene direction: still unaware of xander's imminent attack, buffy roundhouse kicks another vampire while holding onto his arm. she lets go of him as he falls. angel runs past her and uppercuts xander in the face. xander in turn lunges at angel with the crossbow bolt that he's pulled from his shoulder, and impales angel. angel turns to face buffy and grabs his wound.
angel: buffy...
scene direction: he crumbles to ash. buffy takes it like he's just another dead vampire, and marches over to another fray to continue the fight.
anyanka: this is the real world now.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. she still has him pinned to the wall.
anyanka: this is the world we made. isn't it wonderful?
scene change: cut to the factory. buffy notices a vampire run up behind her and backhand punches him, sending him flying through the air. she turns her attention back to xander, who is just throwing a man aside. he sees her coming, and advances on her in turn. he swings at buffy, and she punches his arm away. taking advantage of the opening, she swings her stake into his chest, and he explodes into ashes. without a care, buffy turns back around and starts looking for her next victim. willow sees her love staked and makes a move toward buffy, but larry grabs her by an arm and tries to pull her back. oz shakes free of a vampire and runs to larry's assistance, grabbing her by the waist and shoving her back into a broken piece of the cage. she instantly bursts into ashes.
scene direction: buffy high side kicks a vampire in the face, knocking him to the floor, and turns to face the master. he slides down the stair railings from the stage and shoves aside the vampire and mortal blocking his way. buffy begins a determined stride in his direction. the master shoves more people and vampires aside in his determination to get at the slayer.
scene direction: buffy does the same.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he is beginning to choke. just then he notices the amulet around anyanka's neck begin to glow green, and makes a grab for it, wresting it from her neck. this causes her to let go of him, and he backhand punches her in the face, sending her staggering across the room.
scene change: cut to the factory. buffy and the master finally meet with swings that middle block each other. buffy tries to wrap her hands around the master's forearm.
scene change: cut to giles's apartment. he scrambles to his desk, lays the amulet on it and searches frantically for something to smash it with. he soon has his marble paperweight in his hand. anyanka gets up from the floor.
anyanka: you trusting fool! how do you know the other world is any better than this?
giles: because it has to be.
scene change: cut to the factory. the master does a backhand swing, snapping buffy's head back, dazing her. he grabs her by the shoulders and pulls her to him.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he raises the paperweight and starts to swing it down with full force at anyanka's amulet.
anyanka: no!
scene change: cut to the factory. the master grabs buffy's head.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he swings the paperweight down.
scene change: cut to the factory. the master gives buffy's head a hard twist, snapping her neck.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he swings the paperweight further down.
scene change: cut to the factory. buffy's expression is blank as she begins to sink to the floor.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he smashes the paperweight onto anyanka's amulet. it shatters into thousands of pieces and emits a burst of green light.
scene change: cut to the factory. the master watches as buffy's body begins to fall, then moves on. the picture fades to bright white.
scene direction: the picture fades from white back to the quad at sunnydale high school and cordelia making her wish. she no longer has anya's pendant around her neck.
cordelia: i wish buffy summers had never come to sunnydale.
scene direction: anya turns back to face cordelia.
anya: done.
scene direction: she is taken aback when nothing happens, not yet quite aware that she is no longer immortal.
cordelia: that would be cool! no, wait. i wish buffy summers had never been born.
anya: done!
scene direction: she is surprised that nothing's happening. she looks down at herself in confusion.
cordelia: and i wish that xander harris never again knows the touch of a woman.
scene direction: cordelia smiles, starts to walk away
cordelia: *and* that willow wakes up tomorrow covered in monkey hair.
scene direction: anya tries again
anya: done!
scene direction: the camera follows cordelia to where the gang is sitting.
cordelia: in fact, i wish all men except maybe the dumb and the really agreeable kind...
scene direction: giles walks past the group and makes a point of checking his watch. they all just smile at him and nod.
cordelia: ...disappear off the face of the earth. that would be *so*
scene direction: cool! or maybe...
scene direction: the camera pulls in on xander, buffy and willow smiling and talking cheerfully among themselves 