scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: the bronze. buffy, willow and oz are sitting at a bar, nursing sodas and snacks. buffy seems preoccupied as she idly plays with a cookie.
scene direction: cordelia and xander walk behind them and take a place at the end of the bar.
cordelia: i think we should get a limo.
xander: a limo?
cordelia: yeah!
xander: a big, expensive limo?
willow: that sounds like fun! and it is our last homecoming dance, so maybe we should make a big deal of it.
xander: you wanna talk fun? public bus. you meet the funnest people.
scene direction: cordelia gives the others a disbelieving look.
xander: back me up here, oz.
oz: well, if it's a dollar issue, we could all take my van.
cordelia: van? the homecoming queen doesn't go to the dance in a van.
scene direction: use your head.
scene direction: willow rolls her eyes.
scene direction: xander to cordelia
xander: well, technically, you haven't been elected yet...
scene direction: xander gets a look from her
xander: although you certainly and without a doubt will be.
scene direction: xander to the others
xander: who else likes a limo?
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: a private limo! it, it is pretty...
scene direction: willow nudges up to oz
willow: cuddlesome.
scene direction: willow looks toward buffy
willow: and if we all split the cost...
scene direction: buffy comes out of her reverie
buffy: um... maybe. you know, if i go and all.
willow: why wouldn't you go? you already have your tickets.
scene direction: willow scott approaches
willow: i mean, unless you don't have a da...
scene direction: willow notices scott
willow: ...ay o-or two to think about it. we should all think about it.
scene direction: she hopes she hasn't messed anything up for buffy with scott standing right there. oz gives a little smirk behind her.
scene direction: cordelia confused
cordelia: what's going on here? did scott not ask her to the homecoming dance yet?
scene direction: buffy embarrassed
buffy: thanks, cordelia. humiliation's really good for my color.
scene direction: scott unsure
scott: oh, um... well, no. i just... i assumed that you would think it was corny or something, but i-i'm in... i mean, you know, if you are, if you want to.
buffy: uh, sure... i do. you know, i-if you want to.
scott: well, i do if you want to.
scene direction: willow smiles widely.
scene direction: oz smiles
oz: the judges will accept that as a 'yes'.
scene direction: scott to buffy
scott: do you want me to get you another drink?
buffy: um... no, actually. uh... i-i'm a little tired. i think i'm gonna call it a night. but i'm excited about the dance.
scene direction: buffy smiles
scott: me, too.
scene direction: buffy leans toward him, tugs gently on his jacket and they kiss.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. cut inside. there is a fire going in the fireplace. angel walks past it, and the camera follows him. he is shivering from the cold. he stops and paces back. he turns to go back again, but is startled by some rustling in the atrium. slowly he walks to the doorway. he quickly whips the drapes aside, and there he finds buffy, holding a small paper bag. he jumps back a little, startled.
buffy: i-it's just me.
scene direction: buffy holds out the bag
buffy: here.
scene direction: angel takes the bag and opens it as he walks back into the room. buffy follows him in, but keeps her distance. angel remains faced away from her. he pulls a quart-sized clear plastic container out of the bag. it's filled with blood. angel lifts it to his nose and sniffs.
buffy: how are you feeling?
scene direction: angel jerks his head away slightly from the tub of blood, then lowers it to take off the lid.
angel: it hurts... less.
buffy: good.
scene direction: she is unsure how to continue. she turns around and takes a few steps away before facing him again.
buffy: i haven't... told giles and the others that... you're back.
scene direction: angel quietly
angel: giles...
scene direction: he remains faced away from her.
buffy: and i'm not going to. they wouldn't understand that you're... better. a-a-and i'm gonna keep helping you get better. it's just that everything's different now. i'm a senior. i'm really working harder in school.
scene direction: buffy smirks slightly
buffy: i'm even thinking about college. a-and i'm involved with someone.
scene direction: this causes angel to turn around and give her a surprised look. buffy startles and takes a step back. he reaches out and straightens the lapel of her leather jacket. buffy takes it from him, and he lets go. he turns away again, wincing from his body aches as he does so.
buffy: his name is scott. he's a nice, solid guy. he makes me happy... and that's what i need - someone i can count on.
scene direction: the camera suddenly pans quickly to the left, blurring the picture, and comes to a stop on scott at an outside hall at school the next day.
scott: i don't think we should see each other anymore.
scene direction: buffy taken aback
buffy: you don't?
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: when did this happen? where was i?
scott: buffy, it's just... before we were going out, you, you seemed so... full of life, like a force of nature. now you just seem distracted all the time, and...
scene direction: buffy interrupts
buffy: yeah, i know, it's... i'm getting better. honest. in fact, from here on, you are gonna see a drastic distraction reduction.
scene direction: scott doesn't react at all to her attempt at a joke.
buffy: 'drastic distraction reduction.' try saying that ten times fast.
scott: i'm really sorry.
scene direction: he starts walking away sadly. buffy just watches him go as the camera pulls back from her.
scene change: cut to a view of her through a pair of binoculars. she is still watching scott walk away. cut to a van with darkly tinted windows in a parking lot. the camera closes in on it. cut inside the van. the man looking through the binoculars lowers them and stares intensely out of the window. behind him another man steps around him, also looking out the window. the first man raises the binoculars back to his eyes, and the second man attaches a digital video feed to it. behind them the binocular's view of buffy appears on three small screens. the second man reaches over to a modem set up below the monitors. it is attached to a cell phone, which he opens, and he presses a button to establish a connection. the speed dial sends the tones out in a split second.
scene change: cut to a similar modem in a dark office. the tones and screeches of the connection protocol quickly establish a link. the camera pans up and back until we see an old man in a wheelchair roll up to the desk by the keyboard of the computer connected to the modem. he hits a few keys and looks up at the monitor.
boss: is that her?
scene direction: trick steps into view
trick: in the nubile flesh, my friend.
scene direction: the camera shows a view of buffy on the monitor as she walks slowly and sadly.
trick: that's the target.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: sunnydale city hall. cut inside. deputy mayor allan finch is waiting nervously outside of mayor wilkins' office.
secretary: the mayor will see you now.
scene direction: allan takes a deep breath to compose himself, and heads for the mayor's door. cut inside the office. allan opens the door and steps in holding a folder in his hand. he glances at the mayor's desk, but doesn't see him there. he turns his head and sees him coming out of his private washroom. the mayor's hands come into the camera's view as he vigorously dries them off.
allan: i'm sorry to bother you, sir.
scene direction: allan closes the door behind him
mayor wilkins: i'm not bothered, allan.
scene direction: mayor wilkins goes to his desk
scene direction: allan steps toward the desk
allan: well, i-i'm not sure how serious this is, but, uh,
scene direction: allan opens the folder
allan: they were spotted in town three days ago.
scene direction: allan lays the open folder on the desk
allan: i've just been informed. frederick and hans gruenstahler, uh,
scene direction: allan the mayor picks up a copy of the interpol warrant
allan: wanted in germany for capital murder, terrorism, uh,
scene direction: allan the mayor sniffs the paper
allan: the bombing of flight 1402... uh, i should have brought it to your attention sooner, but i'd, i'd wanted to...
scene direction: (flustered by the mayor's sniffing) confirm...
scene direction: the mayor takes another sniff.
mayor wilkins: would you show me your hands, please?
scene direction: allan raises his eyebrows
allan: sir?
scene direction: mayor wilkins insistently
mayor wilkins: your hands.
scene direction: he puts the warrant back down, pushes the file aside and indicates that allan should put his hands on the desk. allan holds out his hands and slowly leans over, placing them flat on the desk. the mayor leans closer to inspect them. allan nervously watches the mayor, who draws a breath after looking them over.
mayor wilkins: i think they could be cleaner.
allan: of course, sir. i-i mean, i, i washed them, but...
scene direction: the mayor leans back in his chair. allan looks like he's about to have a nervous breakdown.
mayor wilkins: after every meal and under your fingernails. dirt gets trapped there... and germs... and mayonnaise. my dear mother said, 'cleanliness is next to godliness', and i believed her. she never caught a cold.
scene direction: mayor wilkins laughs
mayor wilkins: i'd like these two
scene direction: mayor wilkins points at the warrant
mayor wilkins: to be put under surveillance,
scene direction: mayor wilkins allan straightens back up
mayor wilkins: and i'd like to know if... any other colorful characters have come to town.
allan: i'll take care of it.
scene direction: allan smiles weakly
mayor wilkins: you have all my faith.
scene direction: allan takes a step back from the mayor's desk and walks out just a bit creeped out.
scene change: cut to sunnydale high. cut to the lounge. yearbook pictures are being taken. cordelia gives the camera a glowing smile, and her picture is taken. xander is up next, and he gives the camera a goofy, heavily dimpled smile as the flash goes off. willow hops up on the stool and gives the camera a big grin. when the photographer doesn't immediately snap her picture, her expression becomes a bit concerned, and such will be her picture in the yearbook. oz just stares blankly into the camera with a thin smile on his face. after their pictures are taken, xander and willow start to walk out of the lounge.
willow: you have to help me pick an outfit. i wanna wear something that makes oz go, 'oh.'
scene direction: willow grins
xander: no problem. i got the tux goin' on. i'm gonna look hot if it even remotely fits.
scene direction: they reach cordelia, who is looking at the other girls that are running for homecoming queen.
xander: whatcha doin'?
scene direction: cordelia startles and faces him
cordelia: checking out the i-laughingly-use- the-phrase competition.
scene direction: she looks over at holly, playing with her hair and talking to a couple of boys. oz comes up behind willow and gently puts his arm around her.
cordelia: holly charleston: nice girl, brain dead, doesn't have a prayer.
scene direction: she shifts her gaze to michelle, who is handing out campaign flyers.
cordelia: michelle blake: open to all mankind, especially those with a letterman's jacket and a car.
scene direction: cordelia looks at xander, concerned
cordelia: she could give me a run.
scene direction: cordelia crosses her arms
willow: where's buffy?
scene direction: willow oz looks around
willow: she's gonna miss the yearbook pictures.
xander: buffy and faith are in the library getting all *sweaty*.
scene direction: cordelia corrects him
cordelia: they're training.
scene direction: xander gives her a look
xander: i stand by my phrase.
oz: i don't think she was here the day they announced them. did anybody tell her?
cordelia: oh, i'll tell her now. i have to go to the nurse's office for an ice pack anyway.
scene direction: xander puts his hand on her arm
xander: did you hurt yourself?
scene direction: cordelia smiles
cordelia: no, silly.
scene direction: cordelia nudges him
cordelia: it shrinks the pores!
scene direction: cordelia walks off
scene direction: oz gives xander a look that oozes "duh".
scene change: cut to the library. faith holds up her padded hands as buffy throws several punches to them. after a particularly hard punch, faith has to shake out her hand and take off the pads.
faith: oh, man! guys should break up with you more often.
buffy: gee, thank you.
scene direction: buffy heads toward the book cage
scene direction: faith follows
faith: no, i mean it. you really got some quality rage going. really gives you an edge.
scene direction: faith sets down the pads
scene direction: buffy picks up her jacket
buffy: edge girl.
scene direction: buffy pulls it on
buffy: just what i always wanted to be.
scene direction: faith wipes her cheek with a towel
faith: well, screw him, alright? you move on, and... you party heavily, and you'll be fine. i mean, you're still going to that dance, right?
scene direction: buffy opens a juice bottle
buffy: maybe.
scene direction: buffy takes a swallow
faith: you got the tix already. why don't we go together?
scene direction: buffy closes the bottle
buffy: i don't know about that.
scene direction: buffy smiles
faith: come on. we'll find a couple studs, we'll use 'em and... discard 'em. that's always fun.
scene direction: faith nods and takes a swig of her own drink
buffy: okay, i'm in. not the stud-using part, though.
scene direction: buffy smirks and rolls her eyes
buffy: or... probably not.
scene change: cut to the hall. cordelia looks into the library through the round door windows, and sees the two slayers talking. she pushes the door open and is about to go in when she notices two boys walk by. she slips back into the hall and rushes to catch up with them.
cordelia: uh, bobby! mashad!
scene direction: cordelia smiles and giggles
cordelia: you don't phone, you don't write...
scene direction: cordelia makes eyes at them
cordelia: where's the love?
scene change: cut to the quad. a teacher comes down the stairs while looking over some reports. when she reaches the bottom, buffy notices her and runs up to her.
buffy: ms. moran?
scene direction: buffy the teacher looks up
buffy: hi!
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: i'm so glad that i ran into you.
scene direction: buffy they walk slowly
buffy: um, i had this little incident last year of getting kicked out of school. and i'm back now, though, i've done all of my makeup tests, but i still need one written recommendation from a teacher. i think the word that principal snyder used was 'glowing'.
scene direction: buffy smiles awkwardly
buffy: uh, to put in my file so i can prove that i belong here.
scene direction: ms. moran confused
ms. moran: and, um, you are...?
scene direction: buffy taken aback
buffy: buffy. b-buffy summers.
scene direction: buffy ms. moran tries to remember
buffy: third row. i sat by the window. uh, your class: contemporary american heroes from amelia earhart to maya angelou. the class that changed my life?
ms. moran: were you absent a lot, um...
buffy: buffy?
scene change: cut to the cafeteria. willow, oz, buffy and xander are sitting at a table. buffy just stares off into space while the others pick at their food. cordelia walks into view holding out a flyer and touches a student on the arm.
cordelia: hi. i hope you'll consider me for homecoming queen.
scene direction: she walks off, and the camera focuses on the group at the table again.
buffy: i can't believe it. my favorite teacher, and she didn't even remember who i was. i'm like a non-person.
scene direction: buffy to oz
buffy: am i invisible?
scene direction: buffy waves her hand in front of him
buffy: can you see me?
oz: big as life.
buffy: at hemery, i was prom princess, i was fiesta queen, i was on the cheerleading squad. and the yearbook was, like, a story of me. now it's senior year, and i'm going to be one crappy picture on one-eighth of one crappy page.
scene direction: xander looks up from his plate
xander: uh, no, actually, you're not.
buffy: what do you mean?
xander: well, you, uh, missed the picture-taking.
scene direction: buffy eyes wide with surprise
buffy: when?
scene direction: buffy looks at oz
buffy: why?
oz: we did 'em yesterday.
willow: didn't cordelia tell you?
scene direction: buffy settles her gaze on a campaigning cordelia.
scene change: cut to cordelia handing a flyer to a student. buffy approaches behind her.
cordelia: thanks for your support.
scene direction: cordelia smiles and turns around
cordelia: buffy, you look so cute in that outfit.
buffy: i'm not voting for you.
scene direction: cordelia curtly
cordelia: then make it snappy.
buffy: how come you didn't tell me they were doing the yearbook pictures?
scene direction: buffy crosses her arms
cordelia: didn't i? oh, i guess i forgot. what's the big?
buffy: it's just...
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: you could've thought about somebody else for thirty seconds, that's all.
cordelia: hey, i am under a *lot* of pressure here.
buffy: oh, yeah, campaigning. rough gig.
cordelia: what would you know about it? just because you were guacamole queen when you were three doesn't mean you understand how this works.
buffy: obviously, it involves handing out entirely lame flyers.
cordelia: no. it involves being part of this school and having actual friends.
scene direction: buffy takes offense, and glares at cordelia.
cordelia: now, if it was about monsters, blood, and innards, then you'd be a shoo-in. i'd like to see *you* try to win the crown.
buffy: you would?
scene direction: cordelia huffs and walks around buffy to leave.
buffy: then you will.
scene direction: cordelia stops in her tracks and turns to face her.
cordelia: what does that mean?
scene direction: buffy faces her
buffy: i'm gonna show you how it's done. i'm gonna run for homecoming queen, and i'm going to win.
cordelia: this is starting to be sad.
buffy: sorry, cordy, but you have no idea who you're messing with.
cordelia: what? the slayer?
buffy: i'm not talking about the slayer. i'm talking about buffy.
scene direction: you've awakened the prom queen within. and that crown is going to be mine.
scene change: cut to trick's house.
trick: competition. competition is a beautiful thing. it makes us strive. it... makes us accomplish. occasionally, it makes us kill. we all have the desire to win.
scene direction: trick walks through the room
trick: whether we're human...
scene direction: trick gestures to three men
trick: vampire...
scene direction: he nods to lyle gorch and his wife, then stops by a yellow-skinned creature with a spiny ridge along the top of his head.
trick: ...and whatever the hell you are, my brother. you got them spiny-looking head things. i ain't never seen that before.
kulak: i am kulak, of the miquot clan.
trick: isn't that nice.
scene direction: trick continues walking
trick: point is, you're all here for the same reason.
lyle: well, it sure ain't no philosophy class, now, is it?
scene direction: his wife candy smiles at him. trick stops pacing and faces him.
trick: mr. gorch, my account statement says that your deposit has not yet been made.
lyle: well, me and candy... we blowin' our whole honeymoon stash on this little game here.
scene direction: he empties a bag of cash onto the table.
scene direction: trick unimpressed
trick: they're dirty.
scene direction: lyle smiles
lyle: they're nonconsecutive.
scene direction: trick gives the money another look, and this time is impressed.
scene direction: trick to everyone
trick: the games will begin in a few days' time. the first target, buffy, you've all seen. the second, faith, is... a little more elusive. but they will both be together and ready for the killing, and that is a money-back guarantee.
scene direction: the gorches smile.
trick: ladies, gentlemen, spiny-headed looking creatures, welcome to slayerfest '98!
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene change: the rosenberg house that evening. cut to willow's room. "how", by lisa loeb, is quietly playing on the radio. willow is trying on an outfit, and steps out from behind her changing screen wearing a crimson blouse over a white satin slip dress.
willow: what do you think of this?
scene direction: xander glances over at her as he tucks his white, long-sleeve dress shirt into his tuxedo pants. his bow tie hangs around his collar, still untied.
scene direction: xander shrugs
xander: nice.
scene direction: xander smiles
scene direction: he goes back to tucking in his shirt.
willow: it's my first big dance, you know?
scene direction: willow unbuttons her blouse
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: where there's a boy and a band... and not just me alone in my room pretending that there's a boy and a band.
lyrics: i didn't come this far willow:
scene direction: lyrics picks up another outfit
lyrics: i just want it to be...
scene direction: she goes back behind the changing screen as xander steps over to her dressing mirror to tie his bow tie.
xander: special. that's why i spared no expense on the tux.
willow: the tux? i thought you, uh, borrowed it from your cousin rigby.
lyrics: for you to make this hard for me.
scene direction: xander struggling with his tie
xander: expense to my pride, will. they're our only relations with money, and they shun us... as they should.
lyrics: and now you want to ask me 'how'?
scene direction: willow steps out from behind the screen again, this time wearing a black top embroidered with several randomly placed small sunflowers and a smiling sun over a full-length black skirt with a floral print.
willow: what do you think about this?
lyrics: it's like / how does your heart beat?
scene direction: xander looks and nods
xander: nice.
lyrics: why do you breathe?
scene direction: he turns his attention back on his tie. willow sees him struggle with it and comes over to him, raising her hands along the way to reach for the tie. xander lets go of the tie, and she starts to tie it. she looks up at him and gives him a little smile.
lyrics: how does your heart beat?
xander: what?
lyrics: and why do you breathe?
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: i was just...
lyrics: why did you come here?
willow: remember the eighth-grade cotillion?
scene direction: willow giggles
willow: you had that clip-on?
lyrics: you weren't invited xander: hey, i was pretty stylin' with a clip-on.
lyrics: and you're on the outside willow: and now here we are, and it's... homecoming.
scene direction: lyrics concentrates on the tie
xander: yeah, we should face it, will.
lyrics: stay on the outside.
xander: you and i are gonna be in neighboring rest homes while i come over so you can adjust my, um...
lyrics: and now you want to ask me 'why'?
scene direction: willow raises her eyebrows at him.
xander: my, uh... well, i can't think of anything that's not really gross.
lyrics: it's like / how does your heart beat?
scene direction: willow is finished with the tie and smiles at him. she pats the tie and then goes back behind the screen to try on yet another outfit. xander pulls on his vest.
lyrics: and how do you cry?
xander: so, uh... you and oz.
lyrics: how does your heart beat?
xander: how do i put this?
scene direction: xander buttons the vest
xander: are we on first, second, or, uh... ye gods?
willow: that's none of your business, alexander harris.
scene direction: her shadow on the screen shows her adjusting the shoulder straps of the dress she's putting on.
lyrics: and there are some things that i like to figure out xander:
scene direction: lyrics smiles
lyrics: ooo, rounding second.
scene direction: lyrics reaches for his jacket
scene direction: willow huffs
willow: you don't know that. what about you and cordelia?
lyrics: there are some things that i can do without xander:
scene direction: lyrics pulls on the tuxedo jacket
lyrics: oh, a gentleman never talks about his conquests.
willow: oh, yeah?
scene direction: willow steps out from behind the screen
willow: well, since when did you become a...
lyrics: you and your letters are gone forever they are both struck dumb when they see each other. she is wearing an elegant black, sleeveless, full-length dress. xander is looking dapper in his tuxedo. they don't say anything for a long moment. willow finally breaks the silence to finish her sentence.
willow: ...gentleman?
scene direction: willow smiles and giggles
scene direction: she looks down at her dress, then back up at him and shrugs.
willow: uh, i know. 'nice.' xander: i was gonna go with 'gorgeous'.
scene direction: willow steps toward her
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: really?
scene direction: willow steps toward him
willow: you, too. i-in a guy way.
lyrics: with all the things that you could be xander:
scene direction: lyrics smiles back and draws a breath
lyrics: oz is very lucky.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: so is cordelia... i-in a girl way.
lyrics: you never could learn how to be me.
scene direction: suddenly willow looks very worried.
willow: i don't know if i can dance in this. i don't know if i can dance!
xander: come on. piece of cake.
scene direction: he steps up to her and offers his hands to dance.
xander: here.
lyrics: and now you want to ask me 'how'?
scene direction: they take a few seconds to get positioned for a traditional slow waltz, and then start to dance.
xander: well, that seems to, um...
scene direction: he looks down at their feet as they sway back and forth for a little while. willow looks up at him, but tries not to look like she is.
lyrics: it's like / how does your heart beat? / why do you breathe?
willow: yeah. this shouldn't be a... problem.
lyrics: how does your heart beat?
xander: no.
scene direction: they slowly inch closer to each other.
lyrics: why do you breathe?
xander: no problem.
lyrics: how does your heart beat? / why do you breathe?
scene direction: he slowly leans his head down to her, and she responds by angling hers up to him. they are soon very close, and kiss gently. the kiss goes on for several seconds before they realize what they are doing and quickly jump apart.
lyrics: how do you breathe?
scene direction: xander points at her
xander: that didn't just happen!
willow: no!
scene direction: willow gestures nervously
willow: i mean, it did, but it didn't!
xander: because i respect you. and oz. and i would never...
scene direction: willow furrows her brow
willow: i would never, either! i-it must be the clothes. i-it's a fluke.
xander: it's a clothes fluke, that's what it is. and there'll be no more fluking.
willow: not ever.
scene direction: they step closer again, and are about to kiss when they jump apart again.
xander: we gotta get out of these clothes!
willow: right now!
scene direction: they quickly realize the implication of what they just said, and get all flustered and gesture wildly.
xander: oh, i didn't mean...
willow: i didn't... me, either!
scene direction: she rushes back behind her screen. xander hastens the other way.
scene change: cut to sunnydale high the next day.
buffy: a campaign is like a war. it's won or lost in the trenches.
scene change: cut to the library, where buffy has the large whiteboard arrayed with pictures of cordelia, michelle and holly. next to each picture is a thermometer filled in red up to their perceived levels of popularity.
scene direction: below each picture is a list of strengths and weaknesses for each girl.
scene direction: buffy walks past the board, pointing at each picture with a pointer stick as she goes by.
buffy: holly, michelle, and our real competition, cordelia, all have big head starts.
scene direction: buffy sets down the pointer
buffy: speaking of big heads, if i had a watermelon as big as cordelia's, i'd be rich.
scene direction: she smiles at xander, willow and oz, who are sitting on the table fidgeting nervously and looking as though they are desperate to get out of there. they don't react to buffy's joke at all. her smile fades.
buffy: waits for laugh...
scene direction: she gives up waiting for a response and takes a few steps along the board.
buffy: okay, you're right. making fun of the competition only makes me seem petty. now, this is just like any other popularity contest. i've done this before. the only difference being this time, i'm not actually popular. although, i'm not exactly unpopular. a lot of people came to my welcome home party.
willow: but they were killed by zombies.
scene direction: buffy points at her
buffy: good point. okay,
scene direction: buffy steps up to them
buffy: here's the plan. willow, i need you to make a database. see who's for us, who's on the fence and where our real crisis areas are. oz, you take the fringe: musicians, those not normally inclined to vote. xander, what...
scene direction: she notices cordelia coming into the library. cordelia looks at them, wondering what's going on and crosses her arms.
buffy: uh, cordelia... okay, look. i know this is a little awkward, but i don't see any reason why we all can't get along during this campaign time.
scene direction: buffy cordelia shrugs and nods
buffy: i mean, we're... almost friends, and... we are all riding together in the limo.
cordelia: yeah, great. willow, how's that database coming?
scene direction: willow looks down in shame
willow: uh, it's... just about done.
scene direction: willow sighs
scene direction: cordelia insistently
cordelia: xander?
scene direction: xander whips his head around to face her
xander: i got your new flyers.
scene direction: xander smiles thinly
cordelia: let's get cracking.
scene direction: buffy gives them all a betrayed look. xander slips off of the table.
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: she's my girlfriend.
scene direction: xander goes to cordelia
scene direction: willow slides off of the table also, and gestures and shrugs a lot when she looks at buffy on her way to join xander and cordelia.
willow: it's just that... she needs it so much more than you do.
scene direction: oz gets off of the table also, and stops by buffy on his way after willow, pointing back and forth between willow and himself.
oz: as willow goes, so goes my nation.
scene direction: he goes over to stand with the others, who are hanging their heads in shame and embarrassment behind cordelia. cordelia, by contrast, is standing proudly erect, facing buffy with her arms crossed.
cordelia: thanks for what you said, buffy. i think we're getting along great. don't you?
scene direction: buffy takes it silently with a look of betrayal and abandonment evident on her face. cordelia turns and heads out of the library. the others each give buffy a quick apologetic glance and follow her out. giles walks into the area as buffy goes to the table to get her bottle of apple juice.
giles: seems like a lot of fuss for... one little title.
buffy: well, you know, it's no fun if you don't try your best.
scene direction: buffy takes a drink
giles: as long as fun is still in the mix.
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: sure! it's not like anyone takes it that seriously.
scene direction: the bottle in her hand suddenly shatters under the pressure of her grip.
scene direction: buffy gives giles an innocent smile.
scene direction: cut outside to the quad. the homecoming queen campaigning is well under way. "fire escape", by fastball, plays in the background as the camera moves around, taking in various scenes of the girls trying to get votes.
scene direction: buffy talks to a small group of students while handing out fliers, then looks over her shoulder at cordelia. the camera pans over to cordelia glancing at buffy. when she notices buffy looking at her, she shifts her attention to her own group of people, several of whom already have her flyer.
lyrics: well, i don't wanna be president the camera pans again, and the scene dissolves to trick's abode and jungle bob checking his rifle.
lyrics: superman or clark kent he walks past the gruenstahler brothers wrestling with each other.
lyrics: i don't wanna walk 'round in their shoes the camera continues panning past lyle and candy gorch kissing on a couch.
scene direction: dissolve back to the quad at school. the camera pans across a bulletin board on which holly, michelle and cordelia each have a flyer posted.
lyrics: 'cause i don't know whose side i'm on buffy walks up to the board and posts her much larger flyer right on top of cordelia's.
lyrics: i don't know my right from wrong cut to the gruenstahler's boss, checking maps and coordinates on his computer.
lyrics: i don't know where i'm going to behind him his boys keep up with their training. cut to jungle bob, testing a bear trap. he sticks a mannequin leg into it, and the jaws instantly snap shut, shattering the leg. cut to kulak. he raises his arms and snaps them down so his forearms are extended out from him horizontally at his waist.
lyrics: i don't know about you both of kulak's forearms split open from elbow to wrist, and a long, serrated, green throwing weapon pops out of each arm and into his hands.
scene direction: he roars and quickly heaves them both at a wall, where they both hit within inches of each other.
scene change: cut to the quad at school again. buffy comes down the stairs with a bounce in her step.
lyrics: i'll be the rain falling on your fire escape at the bottom she fakes dropping her stack of flyers. scott sees them fall, and quickly kneels down to pick them up.
buffy: sorry.
scott: here.
scene direction: he hands her the flyers, and they both stand back up.
lyrics: and i may not be the man you want me to scott:
scene direction: lyrics looks at the flyers
lyrics: i heard you were doing this.
buffy: uh... yeah. it's just something to pass the time.
lyrics: i can be myself buffy: it's silly, really.
lyrics: how 'bout you?
scott: i don't think so. for what it's worth, you have my vote.
buffy: no, i don't want you to feel...
scene direction: buffy reconsiders and smiles
buffy: thank you.
scene direction: scott nods his head back at her and leaves.
lyrics: i don't wanna make you mad buffy smiles to herself and pulls out her campaign notebook.
lyrics: i don't wanna meet your dad she opens it to a list of names, and checks off scott's name.
lyrics: i don't wanna be your dream come true she closes it, notices another boy coming and tosses her flyers on the ground again, making like it was an accident. the boy bends down to pick them up. cut to a hall. buffy is wearing a sunnydale high team jacket and talks to a group of athletes also wearing team jackets. they all smile at her as she makes small talk with them.
lyrics: 'cause i don't know just what i've found cut to her campaign book. she checks off the name of daryl sancton. cut to the quad. holly is about to offer a brownie to a boy when buffy comes up to him and gives him a huge chocolate cupcake. she gives him a radiant smile, and then smiles smugly to herself as she walks off.
lyrics: i don't know my sky from ground cut to her campaign notebook. she checks off leafe small's name.
lyrics: i don't know where i'm going to cut to the quad. after giving away two more chocolate cupcakes, buffy walks over to a column to post a flyer. cordelia comes up to the two students and smiles brightly as she hands them each a basket full of sweets and chocolates.
lyrics: i don't know about you cordelia then holds open a bag for them to dump their cupcakes into.
scene direction: buffy watches as cordelia steps over to a trashcan and drops the bag into it. cordelia gives her a smug look and smiles before walking off.
scene change: cut to the halls. willow looks at two flyers of buffy and cordelia posted next to each other, sighs and starts to walk along the hall. she only gets a few steps before she runs into buffy.
buffy: hey.
scene direction: willow jumpy
willow: hi! how are you? you good? you look good. anything new?
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: hey, did i mention you look good?
buffy: willow, it's okay that you're helping cordelia. we're best friends. i'm not gonna hold it against you.
scene direction: willow whining
willow: no, i'm not a friend. i'm a rabid dog who should be shot! but there're forces at work here! dark, incomprehensible forces.
buffy: and i'm sure they're more important than all we've been through together, or... the number of times that i've saved your life.
scene direction: willow looks at her imploringly
willow: what do you want?
buffy: fifteen minutes alone on your computer with cordelia's database.
scene direction: willow gives in with a squeaky voice
willow: 'kay.
scene direction: she slides her backpack from her shoulder and sits at a table by a window.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: good! oh!
scene direction: buffy sits also
scene direction: cut outside the window. the camera pulls back from it.
buffy: so, i spoke to the limo people, and we're all set.
scene direction: cut inside the gruenstahler's van. one of them is looking at them through binoculars while the other has a parabolic listening device trained on them and records their conversation.
buffy: they'll pick up faith, then me, then swing by and get you guys. now, what's your database tell you about *my* weaknesses?
scene change: cut to a hall. jonathon takes a big bite out of a chocolate cupcake as he walks slowly along. the camera pulls back from him to show buffy walking with him with her arm around his shoulders.
buffy: you know, jonathon, i've always felt a special bond between you and me.
scene direction: jonathon with his mouth full
jonathon: cordelia gave me six bucks.
scene direction: jonathon they stop walking
jonathon: that buys a *whole* lotta cupcakes.
scene direction: jonathon takes another bite
scene change: cut to another part of the hall where cordelia is talking to another group of students.
cordelia: are you kidding?
scene direction: she holds up her hand with her fingers spread in the characteristic 'v' form of the vulcan greeting.
cordelia: i've been doing the vulcan death grip since i was four.
scene direction: she smiles at a guy and pokes him in the forehead a few times with her spread fingers, blissfully unaware that she doesn't know the first thing about the vulcan nerve pinch, not even its proper name. buffy walks up behind her with her arms crossed.
buffy: so you really are giving out money, huh?
scene direction: cordelia turns to face her
cordelia: is that any more tacky than your faux 'i'm shy but deep' campaign posters?
buffy: yes.
cordelia: this whole trying to be like me really isn't funny anymore.
buffy: i was *never* trying to be like you, and when was it funny?
cordelia: i don't see why your pathetic need to recapture your glory days gives you the right to splinter my vote.
scene direction: buffy not believing what she's hearing
buffy: how can you think it's okay to talk to people like this? do you have parents?
cordelia: yeah. two of them... unlike some people.
scene direction: buffy completely flabbergasted
buffy: your brain isn't even connected to your mouth, is it?
scene direction: xander and willow walk up behind cordelia.
cordelia: why don't you do us both a favor and stay out of my way?
scene direction: she starts to walk past her, putting her hand on buffy's shoulder to push her out of the way. buffy grabs her hand and pulls it off of her.
buffy: don't *ever* do that again.
scene direction: cordelia jerks her hand away
cordelia: you're sick, you know that?
scene direction: xander takes cordelia by the arms from behind.
xander: okay, let's not say something we'll, uh, regret later...
scene direction: cordelia to buffy
cordelia: you crazy freak!
buffy: vapid whore!
xander: ...like that!
scene direction: he pulls cordelia away from buffy.
scene direction: cordelia incensed
cordelia: what did you call me?!
scene direction: xander quickly leads her away down the hall. willow steps up to buffy looking extremely worried.
willow: this is just...
scene change: cut to willow's room later that afternoon. she paces behind xander.
willow: ...the worst thing that's ever happened. ever!
scene direction: she sits on her bed and crosses her arms and legs, looking down sadly.
scene direction: xander sits down next to her and puts his arm around her.
xander: i know. i know. it's just... when i look at you now, it's like i'm seeing you for the first time.
willow: i'm talking about buffy and cordelia.
scene direction: xander yanks back his arm
xander: me, too.
scene direction: willow sighs
willow: what are we gonna do? i mean, we have to do something.
scene direction: this is all our fault.
xander: how do you get from 'chick fight' to 'our fault'?
scene direction: willow flustered
willow: because: we felt so guilty about the fluke, we overcompensated helping cordelia, and we spun the whole group dynamic out of orbit, and we're just a big meteor shower heading for earth...
xander: okay, calm down. let's just put our heads together and think of something.
scene direction: xander willow nods
scene direction: xander takes a breath
xander: okay, one of us here is pretty darn smart, and i am...
scene direction: willow looks at him expectantly.
xander: ...just in hell. i-i mean, i-i thought being a senior *at last*
scene direction: and, and having a girlfriend *at last* would, would be a *good* thing.
scene direction: now, why wouldn't that be a good thing?
scene direction: he notices willow's gazed fixed on his mouth.
xander: what?
willow: sometimes when you're falling to pieces, your mouth,
scene direction: willow reaches up with her hand
willow: it just does the sweetest thing.
scene direction: willow smiles
scene direction: xander reaches up with his hand, takes hers in it and lowers their hands to his knee. he puts his other hand over hers as well.
willow: what are we gonna do?
xander: we just have to get the two of them communicating.
willow: i'm talking about us.
scene direction: they look at each other in silence.
scene change: cut to buffy's house that night. she is wearing a bright red spaghetti- strap evening gown with matching shoes and purse. she comes down the steps from the porch and walks over to the limousine waiting for her in the driveway. the driver holds open the door for her, and she gets in.
scene direction: he closes the door. buffy looks next to her and finds cordelia sitting there wearing a green satin dress with a corsage on her wrist.
buffy: what's going on here? where's faith?
scene direction: cordelia hands her the card she found in the limo when she was picked up. buffy opens it and reads.
scene direction: dear cordelia and buffy, we won't be riding to the dance with you.
scene direction: we want you to work out your problems because our friendships are more important than who wins homecoming queen.
scene direction: your friends.
scene direction: p.s. the limo was not cheap. work it out.
scene direction: she folds the card closed and sets it down.
buffy: well...
scene direction: she looks around and notices the corsage waiting for her in a small box between them.
buffy: they bought us corsages?
cordelia: i took the orchid.
scene direction: buffy rolls her eyes
buffy: okay.
scene direction: the driver gets in and starts the car. the camera is in a close-up shot of his ear, and he puts an earpiece into it as the camera pulls out to reveal that the driver is one of the gruenstahler brothers. he puts the car in gear and drives off.
scene change: cut to a lonely stretch of road in the woods. the limousine drives along at a steady speed.
cordelia: i don't see what the big deal is.
scene direction: cut inside the limo.
buffy: i'm not making a big deal. you wanted the orchid, you got the orchid.
cordelia: it goes with my complexion better.
scene direction: the driver pulls the limo to the side of the road.
buffy: it does have that sallow tint.
scene direction: she notices the car stop.
buffy: finally we're here.
scene direction: they hear the driver's door slam and his footsteps as he runs off. buffy gives cordelia a concerned look. she opens her door and gets out of the car. cut outside. cordelia gets out behind her and swings the door shut.
scene direction: they look around, surprised to find themselves in the middle of the woods.
cordelia: what is this?
scene direction: cordelia loudly
cordelia: okay, guys, we've had enough of your stupid little game!
scene direction: buffy notices a vcr and a monitor waiting for them on a rock.
buffy: what's massively wrong with this picture?
scene direction: they walk up to it. a sign on the vcr says "press play", which buffy does. trick appears on the screen.
trick: hello, ladies. welcome to slayerfest '98.
scene direction: buffy and cordelia stare at the monitor in disbelief.
trick: what is a slayerfest, you ask? well, as in most of life, there's the hunters and the hunted. can you guess where you two fall? from the beginning of this tape, you have exactly thirty seconds-
scene direction: trick checks his watch
trick: no, that's seventeen now--to run for your lives.
scene direction: trick smiles
scene change: cut to cordelia.
trick: faith...
scene change: cut to buffy.
trick: buffy...
scene change: cut to the monitor.
scene direction: trick smiling hugely
trick: have a nice death.
scene direction: the picture fades to black, and the word "slayerfest" appears in red and white.
scene direction: cordelia to the woods around them
cordelia: hello! how stupid are you people?
scene direction: cordelia points at buffy
cordelia: she's a slayer.
scene direction: cordelia puts her hand to her chest
cordelia: i'm a homecoming queen!
scene direction: they hear a distant gunshot, and an instant later the monitor explodes.
scene direction: cordelia gasps in fright, and the two of them begin to run.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the homecoming dance at the bronze. dingoes ate my baby (four star mary)
scene direction: are on the stage performing "she knows". the camera is overhead looking straight down on the drummer. it tilts up as it moves past oz on his guitar and devon at the mic and out into the crowd.
lyrics: she flies from a blinding light / and spirals to my heart the camera closes in on willow and xander standing about three feet
scene direction: lyrics 1m
scene direction: apart. willow has her hands folded in front of her and looks sad as she watches the band play. xander is idly nibbling on a finger sandwich while looking down at the floor, seemingly deep in thought. faith comes up behind them.
faith: what are you two so mopey about?
lyrics: i try to find my mind to go / don't know where to start xander:
scene direction: lyrics looks at her
lyrics: oh, we're not mopey. we're groovin'.
scene direction: lyrics points at the stage
lyrics: on oz's band. he's a great guy, oz.
lyrics: won't ever, can't ever find my sanity willow: he wrote this song for me.
scene direction: faith glances around and sees scott behind her dancing with a girl.
lyrics: won't ever...
scene direction: faith to willow, indicating behind them
faith: sleazebag!
scene direction: faith huffs and walks off
lyrics: ...can't ever till i hear her calling for me giles finds them and rushes up behind them.
giles: we have to find buffy. something terrible's happened.
scene direction: willow and xander look at him, but aren't upset by this news.
lyrics: she knows that, she knows that giles:
scene direction: lyrics smiles
lyrics: just kidding. thought i'd give you a scare.
scene direction: willow looks back at the band. xander just stares at him.
lyrics: she knows that side of me giles:
scene direction: lyrics sees xander's sandwich
lyrics: are those finger sandwiches?
scene direction: he goes off to find the buffet table to get a few sandwiches of his own.
scene direction: xander looks back at the band now, too.
lyrics: i can't help it, can't help it cut to the woods. buffy and cordelia jog through it at a brisk pace.
scene direction: buffy scans the forest around them as they go. cordelia just follows her.
cordelia: i have an idea. we talk to these people, we explain that i'm not a slayer, and they let me go.
scene direction: they slow to a walk. buffy ignores cordelia's comment, and keeps scanning around them. cordelia looks down and sees that buffy is about to step into a bear trap.
cordelia: look out!
scene direction: with her fast slayer reflexes, buffy instantly lifts her foot back up, and the trap snaps shut empty. knowing someone must be near, buffy grabs cordelia and pulls her to the ground as jungle bob takes aim with his rifle.
buffy: get down!
scene direction: he shoots and misses. buffy grabs the sprung trap and hurls it at jungle bob. it hits him hard, and he staggers back and steps into another bear trap. he grunts when it snaps shut on his leg. buffy hurries over to him with cordelia not far behind. she picks up his rifle and points it at him.
buffy: that's gotta smart.
scene direction: jungle bob tries to pry open the trap.
buffy: now, i can let you out of that, or i can put a bullet in your head. how many are there in this little game, and what are they packing?
scene direction: he just stares at her, refusing to speak. buffy pumps a fresh round into the gun's chamber. this gives him cause to think again.
jungle bob: there's me, two germans with ar-15s and grenade launcher...
scene direction: yellow-skinned demon with long knives... vampire couple from texas named gorch.
buffy: that everybody?
jungle bob: everybody who's out here. germans are wired. their boss is tracking them on computer. now get me out of this!
cordelia: could i just ask you an *eensy* favor? could you just tell your friends that i'm not a sl...
scene direction: cordelia screams and jumps back as kulak's serrated weapons slice into the tree in front of her.
scene change: cut to the bronze. giles selects a few finger sandwiches from the buffet table.
lyrics: just a little more, just a little more behind giles, faith moves around the table, and the camera follows her over to scott. he is dancing slow and close with his date.
lyrics: just until i know what i'm feeling faith touches the couple, and they pull apart.
faith: scott? there you are, honey!
lyrics: just a little more faith: hey, good news.
lyrics: just a little more / to find my sanity faith:
scene direction: lyrics with lots of gesturing
lyrics: the doctor says that the itching and the swelling and the burning should clear up,
scene direction: lyrics puts her hands on his chest
lyrics: but we gotta keep using the ointment.
scene direction: scott's date isn't sure what to make of that. faith turns to her and touches her on the shoulder.
faith: hi.
lyrics: she knows that side is calling back for me she turns back to scott, grabs him by the lapels and gives him a little pull. she lets go of him and walks away. scott turns back to his date, thoroughly embarrassed.
scott: uh...
scene direction: the camera pans back across the buffet table to giles. he chews on a bite of his finger sandwich and steps over to willow and xander sitting angled away from each other. willow stares at the floor while xander leans his face into his fist.
lyrics: i've lost my mind / i never believe giles: i suspect the, uh, finger food contains... actual fingers.
scene direction: xander gives him a quick disgusted glance. willow just stares sadly at the floor.
lyrics: she knows that side...
giles: i-i-i think i'll retreat to the library until the coronation.
scene direction: he gets no reaction from either of them.
lyrics: ...is calling back for me giles: i wanna be here when, when, when buffy... well, uh, however the thing turns out for her.
lyrics: i lost my mind til she's calling for me giles: a-and that was a very fine thing you two did, putting buffy and cordelia together.
lyrics: she's calling for me / she's calling for me he holds out the rest of his sandwich wrapped in a napkin out to xander, who idly takes it. giles then heads out of the bronze to go to his library.
lyrics: she knows that, she knows that willow keeps staring down at the floor with a big frown on her face.
willow: we did one fine thing.
lyrics: she knows that side of me xander: yeah. they've been gone for a while. they must really be getting' into it.
lyrics: i can't help it cut inside a run-down cabin in the woods. buffy kicks the door in, and she and cordelia rush in. buffy holds jungle bob's rifle in one hand as she pushes the door shut with the other and pulls a chair over to barricade it. she starts to go each window to close the shutters and draw the drapes over them.
buffy: we should be safe in here for a while. you need to find a weapon.
scene direction: cordelia panting with fright
cordelia: safe? i'm not safe. i'm gonna die!
scene direction: buffy pulls back the drapes from another window to close its shutters, but it comes loose in her hand and falls to the floor.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: yeah, you are if you just stand there.
scene direction: she pulls the drapes across to at least block the view and goes on to do the rest of the windows.
scene direction: cordelia sobbing
cordelia: i'm never gonna be crowned homecoming queen. i'm never gonna graduate from high school. i'm never gonna know if it's real between me and xander, or if it's just...
scene direction: cordelia sobs
cordelia: some temporary insanity that made me think...
scene direction: cordelia sobs
cordelia: i loved him.
scene direction: cordelia sobs
cordelia: and now i'm never gonna get the chance to tell him.
scene direction: buffy allows her attention to be diverted by cordelia for a moment. she sighs and goes over to her.
buffy: yes, you are. we are gonna get out of here, and we are gonna head back to the library, where giles and the rest of the weapons live. then i'm gonna take out the rest of these guys just in time for you to congratulate me on my *sweeping* victory as homecoming queen.
scene direction: buffy heads back to a window
cordelia: i know what you're up to.
scene direction: cordelia buffy turns back to face her
cordelia: you think if you get me mad enough, i won't be so scared. and, hey! it's working! where's a damn weapon?
scene direction: she looks around and sees an end table with drawers, walks over to it and starts searching for anything that she can use. buffy resumes her surveillance at the window.
buffy: you really love xander?
cordelia: well, he kinda grows on you, like... a chia pet.
scene direction: she finds a spatula and takes it over to buffy.
buffy: that's it?
cordelia: just this and a telephone.
buffy: a telephone. and you didn't think that'd be helpful?
cordelia: no, this is better for...
scene direction: she swings it a few times and realizes it probably won't be of much use.
cordelia: oh.
scene direction: cordelia exhales
scene change: cut to trick's place. the gruenstahler's boss is using his computer to track the happenings in the woods.
boss: you're about to see why daniel boone and that idiot demon are creatures of the past... and why i am the future. i'm picking up a signal.
scene direction: he zeros in on a grid on his computer map.
boss: they've got a phone!
scene change: cut to the cabin. buffy is on the phone.
buffy: if you get this message, giles, get help and get out here...
scene direction: the phone clicks and goes dead.
buffy: hello?
cordelia: what happened?
buffy: it went dead.
scene change: cut to jungle bob in the woods. kulak walks up behind him and watches him grunt and struggle to pry open the bear trap.
kulak: want me to cut that leg off?
jungle bob: no, thanks.
scene direction: kulak gives him a disgusted grunt and walks off after the girls.
scene change: cut to the gruenstahler brothers. they are decked out all in black and have their ar-15s raised and ready, listening to their boss on their headsets and scanning the area as they go.
boss: continue proceeding south ninety meters to vector three.
scene change: cut to giles' office. he comes in, notices that there is a message for him on his machine and presses the playback button. he takes a sip of his tea as the machine rewinds briefly, beeps and plays buffy's message.
buffy: giles, it's me... and cordelia. we're in a cabin in miller's woods, and we're in big trouble.
scene change: cut to the cabin. cordelia sits down on a cot.
cordelia: why is it every time i go somewhere with you, it always ends in violence and terror?
scene direction: buffy staring out a window
buffy: welcome to my life.
cordelia: i don't wanna be in your life. i wanna be in my life.
scene direction: buffy looks back at her
buffy: well, there's the door.
scene direction: buffy points with the rifle
buffy: please feel free to walk out at any time and live your life.
scene direction: she walks over to another window and looks out again.
cordelia: all i wanted was to be homecoming queen.
scene direction: buffy turns to face her again and lowers the gun.
buffy: and that's all i wanted, too, cordelia.
scene direction: she sighs, looks down at her dress and heads back to the other window again.
buffy: i spent a year's allowance on this dress.
scene direction: buffy looks out again
cordelia: i don't even get why you care about homecoming when you're doing stuff like this.
scene direction: again buffy turns around to face her.
buffy: because this is all i do. this is what my life is.
scene direction: buffy lowers her head and steps into the room
buffy: you couldn't understand.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: i just thought... homecoming queen.
scene direction: buffy smiles
scene direction: buffy cordelia keeps respectfully silent
buffy: i could pick up a yearbook someday and say, i was there. i went to high school, i had friends, and... for one moment, i got to live in the world.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: and there'd be proof. proof that i was chosen for something other than this.
scene direction: cordelia gives her an understanding look. buffy raises the rifle in her hands.
buffy: besides...
scene direction: buffy pumps the rifle
buffy: i look cute in a tiara.
scene direction: cordelia lets out a little laugh. then they hear a growl outside of the cabin.
cordelia: do you hear...
scene direction: suddenly kulak comes crashing through a window. he immediately grabs buffy and throws her down onto an old mattress and pillow on the floor, making her drop the rifle. she rolls out of the way as he swings at her with his green serrated blades, and they just slice into the pillow.
scene direction: buffy rushes to the far wall and takes down a set of antlers to use for defense. kulak swings his blades at her while cordelia slaps him on the back with her spatula from behind. buffy blocks the blades with the antlers and shoves the antlers aside. kulak goes down with them.
buffy: cor, the gun!
scene direction: kulak gets to his knees and takes a wide swing at buffy, cutting her slightly on the arm and making her fall.
buffy: ooh!
scene direction: cordelia finds the rifle on the floor and picks it up. kulak stands up and tries another swing, but buffy grabs the end of the rug he's standing on and yanks it out from under him, making him fall backward and hit the floor hard on his back. cordelia has the gun raised now, and waves it around looking for a target. kulak gets back to his feet, and cordelia shoots but misses, hitting a bottle on a shelf instead.
buffy: cordelia, the spatula.
scene change: cut outside of the cabin. the gruenstahler boys sneak up on it. cut to their boss.
boss: prepare to launch.
scene direction: cut inside the cabin. kulak takes a lunging swing at buffy. she avoids it and grabs the hanging lamp above her and uses it to support herself to deliver a solid mid-air roundhouse kick to kulak's face. he goes flying backward into a desk against the wall and falls to the floor.
scene direction: cut outside. one of the brothers loads a grenade into his launcher and closes the chamber. their boss gives them coordinates over their radio feeds.
boss: target's in range, ready your weapons. y-axis fifty-three degrees west by eight degrees south.
scene direction: the assassin punches the coordinates into his targeting computer.
scene direction: cut inside. cordelia tries to get buffy's attention.
cordelia: buffy!
scene direction: buffy looks over at her, and cordelia tosses her the rifle. she aims it at kulak as he gets up from the floor. he roars and starts to come at her. buffy pulls the trigger, but the chamber is still empty from cordelia's shot, so the hammer just clicks on nothing. buffy quickly raises the rifle above her head to block kulak's swing. his blade embeds itself in the rifle's stock, and buffy twists it around, pulling kulak's arm with it and pinning him down.
scene change: cut to the gruenstahler's boss.
boss: launch!
scene direction: cut outside the cabin. the grenade is launched. cut inside. the grenade penetrates a window shutter and falls to the floor in front of buffy and kulak. they look at each other and let go of the rifle. buffy grabs cordelia and starts to run toward a window with her in tow. kulak runs for another window. buffy and cordelia both jump and crash through the glass. kulak jumps also, but his window is shuttered behind the curtain, so he just bounces off of it and back into the room by the grenade. he takes a quick, terrified breath.
scene direction: cut outside. buffy and cordelia run like mad. behind them the cabin explodes in a huge fireball, sending bits of debris flying everywhere and knocking them to the ground. they both look up at each other, panting.
buffy: we gotta get back to the library.
scene direction: they get up and start running through the woods. the gruenstahlers begin to track them.
scene change: cut to the library. lyle and candy have the book cage open and have found the weapons stash. a couple of battle-axes and a mace are on a table. candy loads a bolt into the crossbow, turns around and points it at lyle.
lyle: easy, darlin'.
scene direction: lyle nudges the weapon away
lyle: these things go through you faster than grandpa pete's chili.
candy: i want to do buffy, my weddin' present for what happened to your poor brother.
lyle: tector.
scene direction: candy impatient
candy: when's she comin'?
scene direction: lyle looks down at the floor
lyle: well, he's her watcher. she'll show...
scene direction: just as soon as she gets rid of some of our competition.
scene direction: the camera pans down to giles lying unconscious on the floor.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: inside trick's house. the gruenstahler's boss is tracking buffy and cordelia on his computer.
boss: they're heading west, back into town.
trick: they got away?
boss: temporarily.
trick: well, give it up for the slayers. they got character.
scene direction: there's a knock at the door.
trick: i'll take care of it.
scene change: he goes to answer the door. the boss keeps tracking the girls. cut to the door. trick opens it. there he finds two police officers waiting.
trick: evening, gentlemen. how may i help you?
scene direction: without a word the two officers grab him and drag him out of the house.
trick: excuse me! anybody got a warrant here?
scene change: cut to the halls at the school. buffy and cordelia come around a corner and head for the library.
buffy: jungle bob and spike-head are down and out. we've lost the germans twice, but they seem to keep finding us. if we take them out and the gorches, we can still make homecoming.
cordelia: those animals! hunting us down like poor defenseless... well, animals.
scene direction: they walk into the library.
buffy: we just need to find giles...
scene direction: candy roars and grabs buffy by the arm. she swings her around and lets go, but buffy maintains her balance and doesn't fall. candy does a roundhouse kick to buffy's face, making her stagger a bit. she grabs buffy by the back of the neck and shoves her into a bookcase, bringing her head down onto the shelves and breaking several of them as she falls to the floor. lyle smiles at candy's clever move, but buffy does a sweep kick, knocking candy's legs out from underneath her and making her fall also. buffy scrambles to her feet. cordelia gets her attention.
cordelia: buffy!
scene direction: she tosses the spatula to buffy, who grabs it in mid-air and turns to face candy with it. candy grabs the coat rack as she gets up. buffy lunges at candy with the handle of the spatula and impales her on it.
scene direction: candy shoves the base of the coat rack into buffy's face and makes her stumble back into the walls. she falls over a wastebasket and into a potted tree before falling to the floor unconscious. candy drops the coat rack and notices the spatula sticking out of her chest. lyle's face takes on a look of terror.
lyle: candy!
scene direction: she burst into ashes before his eyes.
lyle: oh, candy...
scene direction: he heads for buffy on the floor. cordelia calmly steps over and heads him off.
lyle: i'm gonna kill both you slayers for this! you hear me?
cordelia: i hear you, you redneck moron. you got a dress that goes with that hat?
scene direction: lyle furious
lyle: i'm gonna...
cordelia: rip out my innards, play with my eyeballs, boil my brain and eat it for brunch? listen up, needle-brain. buffy and i have taken out four of your cronies, not to mention your girlfriend.
lyle: wife!
cordelia: whatever. the point is, i haven't even broken a sweat. see, in the end, buffy's just the runner-up. *i'm* the queen. you get me mad,
scene direction: cordelia gets in his face and glares at him
cordelia: what do you think i'm gonna do to you?
scene direction: lyle is taken aback by that, and considers his next move. cordelia raises her eyebrows at him impatiently. lyle thinks better of taking her on and gives her a quick nod.
lyle: later.
scene direction: he cautiously edges his way around her and heads out of the library.
scene direction: giles wakes up and gets up from the floor. cordelia smiles, impressed with herself.
scene change: cut to later in the library. buffy is awake again, and giles starts to deal with the mess left by the gorches.
scene direction: buffy to cordelia
buffy: that should teach him to mistake you for a slayer.
giles: yes, i must admit i do feel partly responsible. i did give your friends tacit approval to make the switch in the limousine.
buffy: aw, it's okay. it gave cor and i a chance to spend some quality death time.
cordelia: and we got these free corsages.
scene direction: cordelia looks at hers
scene direction: buffy pulls hers out to look at it.
giles: oh, that's nice. although i don't recall them mentioning corsages.
buffy: jungle bob... said that the germans were hooked into a computer system.
scene direction: she gives her corsage a more thorough inspection. inside she finds a small transmitter.
buffy: and they're hooked into us.
scene change: they both look up when they hear a door slam out in the halls. cut to the halls. the gruenstahler brothers make their way in, scanning around with their laser-sighted rifles. cut into the library. cordelia quickly pulls her corsage off and gives it to buffy.
cordelia: oh, god, get rid of these things!
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: i need some wet toilet paper.
scene direction: cordelia sarcastically
cordelia: yeah! that'll help.
scene change: cut to the halls. the brothers pull on their night vision goggles and continue to scan and advance into the dark halls. their boss talks over their com links.
boss: transmitting coordinates now.
scene change: cut to their boss tracking them.
boss: they're fifty feet away.
scene change: cut to the halls as seen looking through the night vision goggles.
scene direction: suddenly buffy runs across the hall. they try to trace her and fire, but they can't follow her fast enough with their aim. they hold their fire, and one of them signals the other to advance. around the corner buffy ducks into a classroom. the one follows her in. the other listens to his boss' instructions and takes aim through a wall.
boss: axis six degrees by forty-three.
scene change: cut to their boss, still tracking.
boss: i have them both in range.
scene change: cut inside the classroom. the assassin scans around in the dark room, but can't see anything. cut to the hall. the one out there moves his rifle according to his instructions.
boss: i have the targets together, twenty feet north and stationary.
scene direction: final position is locked. fire when ready.
scene direction: cut inside the classroom. the assassin keeps scanning as he walks through the room.
boss: both targets seven degrees by thirty-five.
scene direction: buffy rises up from behind a low bookcase. she throws a wad of wet toilet paper with the transmitters, and it hits the assassin on his back. he spins around to look what direction he was hit from.
boss: adjust! right ten degrees! fire!
scene change: cut to the hall. the assassin there starts to shoot through the wall.
scene change: cut to the room. the other one turns toward the fire and shoots back.
scene direction: they keep shooting at each other through the wall until they hit each other and die.
scene change: cut to their boss. the targets on his screen disappear, and he assumes that his targets have been eliminated.
scene direction: boss smiles
boss: i won!
scene direction: he chuckles and snaps his fingers in triumph.
scene change: cut to the classroom. buffy looks at the destroyed windows from behind the cover of the bookcase.
scene change: cut to city hall. cut to the mayor's office. a police officer escorts trick in and shoves him to the center of the room. mayor wilkins looks up, smiles and offers his hand in greeting.
mayor wilkins: hello! nice to meet you.
scene direction: trick ignores the hand
trick: yeah, hi, it's a pleasure. where am i?
scene direction: mayor wilkins withdraws his hand
mayor wilkins: in my office. i'm richard wilkins.
scene direction: i'm the mayor of sunnydale. and you're... (points at him) mr. trick.
scene direction: (indicates a chair) please, sit down.
scene direction: he walks around to the other side of his desk. trick takes a seat.
mayor wilkins: that's an exciting suit.
trick: well, clothes make the man.
mayor wilkins: well, as i understand it, you're not a man... exactly.
scene direction: mayor wilkins trick nods
mayor wilkins: mr. trick, i've been the mayor for quite some time. i like things to run smoothly. this is a very important year for me.
trick: election year.
mayor wilkins: something like that.
trick: if this is the part where you tell me that i don't fit in here in your quiet little neighborhood, you can just skip it 'cause, see, that all got old long before i became a vampire. do you know what i'm saying?
mayor wilkins: do you have children?
scene direction: mayor wilkins trick just smiles
mayor wilkins: children are the heart of a community.
scene direction: mayor wilkins walks around his desk again
mayor wilkins: they need to be looked after. controlled.
scene direction: mayor wilkins sits on his desk
mayor wilkins: the more rebellious element needs to be dealt with. the children are our future. we need them. *i*
scene direction: need them.
trick: if this rebellious element means who i think it does, then that problem may be taken care of this very night.
mayor wilkins: so i've heard.
scene direction: mayor wilkins chuckles
mayor wilkins: that's a very enterprising idea you have: slayerfest.
scene direction: mayor wilkins laughs
mayor wilkins: i love that name, by the way. you see, *that's* the kind of initiative i need on my team.
trick: what if i don't wanna be a part of the team?
mayor wilkins: oh, no, that won't be an issue.
scene direction: trick just gives him an even stare. the mayor reaches onto his desk for a thin plastic box and opens the lid.
mayor wilkins: see, you and i are gonna get along very well.
scene direction: mayor wilkins offers the box to trick
mayor wilkins: moist towelette?
scene change: cut to the bronze. the time to announce the homecoming queen has arrived. the band's drummer gives a brief drumroll to get everyone's attention as devon steps up to the mic.
devon: hey, guys, the moment we've all been waiting for.
scene change: cut to the crowd. devon goes on with some minor announcements before naming this year's queen. willow gives oz a concerned look.
willow: they're gonna announce the queen. where are they? what's keeping them?
scene direction: oz notices buffy and cordelia work their way through the crowd behind them. they are still dirty and disheveled from their ordeal.
oz: i'm gonna go with mud wrestling.
xander: oh, god! what did you two do to each other?
buffy: long story.
cordelia: got hunted.
buffy: apparently not that long.
scene direction: willow looks at the two of them in disbelief.
buffy: tell you one thing, though: you don't wanna mess with cordelia.
scene direction: xander laughs and gets a look from cordelia
xander: no.
scene direction: another drumroll gets their attention.
devon: in this envelope, i hold the name of this year's homecoming queen.
scene direction: he gets a few calls from the crowd. before opening the envelope he makes another announcement about an after-party.
cordelia: after all that we've been through tonight, this whole who- gets-to-be-queen capade seems pretty...
buffy: damn important.
cordelia: oh, yeah.
devon: and the winner is...
scene direction: he opens the envelope and checks the name.
devon: hey, i believe we have a first for sunnydale high. we have a tie.
scene direction: buffy and cordelia exchange a look and smile.
devon: the winners are holly charleston and michelle blake!
scene direction: buffy and cordelia's smiles fade. michelle and holly push between them to get to the stage. everyone in the crowd applauds as the two queens make their way to the stage. cordelia and buffy can't believe it. on the stage devon holds up the homecoming tiara, and waves it first over michelle's head, then holly's. the crowd continues to applaud. michelle steps up to the mic.
michelle: i'm just so honored!
scene direction: michelle giggles
scene direction: buffy and cordelia exchange another look, roll their eyes and turn to go.
michelle: i can't believe it! i mean, that you would pick me... or us... out of every girl in the whole school! it's just... it's so wonderful!
scene direction: cordelia rolls her eyes again as the two of them leave.
scene direction: michelle starts to weep
michelle: i promised myself i'm not gonna cry...
