scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: the bronze. people are coming and going. cut inside. it's especially crowded tonight. dingoes ate my baby (four star mary) are on stage finishing the last song of their set, "run".
lyrics: if i could walk out oz looks out into the crowd, a smile for willow on his face. she is sitting at a table with xander and cordelia. they have to share it with some other people, it's so crowded.
lyrics: you know i'd never lie the song ends with oz's last chord understated and fading. the crowd begins to applaud and cheer as devon takes his bows. oz lifts his guitar from his shoulder, leans the instrument against the back wall of the stage and heads down the stairs at the side of the stage to join the gang at their table.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: oz! hey! have a seat... except, we don't have any seats.
oz: it's okay. i'll just scrunch in.
scene direction: willow nudges over a bit with her stool to make room for oz at the table, and bumps into xander. she gives him a nervous look. xander hurriedly scoots over a bit as well, nudging up hard against cordelia.
cordelia: xander, why are you giving me a lap dance?
scene direction: xander smiles weakly and strokes her arm
xander: what? i just like you.
scene direction: cordelia pulls her arm away from him and squirms around a bit to get comfortable again.
scene direction: willow stammers, smiling nervously
willow: and that's very beautiful. i think it's great when two people like two people and want to be close to them instead of anyone else.
scene direction: oz smiles to himself, enjoying it as always whenever willow does that cute stammering thing.
scene direction: xander also nervous
xander: here, here!
oz: yeah. well put.
scene direction: oz points at a cup
oz: hey, can i snag a sip?
willow: sure.
scene direction: willow reaches for her cup
scene direction: xander reaches also
xander: yeah, you got it.
scene direction: their hands touch as they both reach for her cup. they look at each other in surprise and instantly jerk back their arms. in doing so they knock a tray of drinks out of the hand of the waitress standing behind them. xander slips off of his stool and tries to catch them, but of course he's too late, and can only look down at the spilled drinks.
scene direction: around him the crowd begins to applaud his graceful maneuver. he goes with the situation and raises his hands to the crowd in acknowledgment.
scene direction: willow, however, is embarrassed.
xander: thank you!
scene direction: xander turns around
xander: thank you.
scene direction: xander waves
xander: uh, we're here through saturday. enjoy the veal.
scene direction: xander smiles
scene direction: willow is terribly embarrassed now and tries to hide her face. xander gets back on his stool. oz reaches for a cup on his own.
cordelia: why are you guys so hyper?
scene direction: oz takes a drink from willow's cup.
scene direction: willow nervously tries to cover
willow: hey! speaking of people and things they do that aren't like usual, anyone notice buffy acting sort of different?
scene direction: oz grimaces at the drink and puts the cup back on the table.
xander: let's see, uh, killing zombies... uh, torching sewer monsters, and... no, that's pretty much the, uh,
scene direction: xander grins weakly
xander: same old buffster.
scene direction: willow concerned
willow: well, i just mean, you know, she's off by herself a lot more, and she's kind of... distracted.
scene direction: cordelia smiles
cordelia: think maybe she has a new honey?
willow: a boyfriend? why wouldn't she tell us?
cordelia: excuse me? when your last steady killed half the class, and then your rebound guy sends you a dump-o-gram? it makes a girl shy.
xander: but we're the best of buffy's bestest buds. she'd tell us.
scene direction: buffy arrives behind them
buffy: tell you what?
willow: about your new boyfriend, who we made up. unless we didn't?
scene direction: willow gives her an inquiring look
scene direction: buffy raises her eyebrows
buffy: this was a topic of discussion?
oz: well, raised, but never discussed.
cordelia: so, are you dating somebody or not?
scene direction: buffy angles her eyes up and sways around a bit, considering what she should say.
buffy: i wouldn't use the word 'dating',
scene direction: buffy looks at them
buffy: but i am going out with somebody. tonight, as a matter of fact.
willow: really? who?
scene direction: faith puts her hand on xander's shoulder and pulls him aside a little so she can squeeze in.
faith: yo, what's up?
scene direction: faith nudges buffy's shoulder
faith: hey, time to motorvate.
scene direction: buffy puts her arm around faith
buffy: really, we're just good friends.
scene direction: the two slayers head out of the club together.
scene change: cut to a cemetery. buffy and faith both roll onto their backs, side by side, each with a vampire on top of them. buffy backhand punches her attacker while faith struggles to get control over hers. buffy's vampire tries to punch her, but she redirects his arm to hit the ground next to her. giles watches calmly while sitting behind them on a nearby bench.
scene direction: buffy is still on her back while her assailant is now standing over her, throwing punches down at her. faith log rolls away from them, taking her attacker with her. giles takes off his glasses and begins to clean them.
scene direction: faith manages to roll on top of her vampire. she yanks him by the lapels of his jacket to a standing position, spins half-way around and throws him into a log roll over a stone bench. he hits the ground and keeps on rolling. buffy is up now, and ducks a half-spinning jumping hook kick from her vampire, and then sidesteps to avoid a punch. faith jumps up onto the bench and then back down to the ground. her attacker aims a punch at her face, but rethinks his maneuver and decides to snap kick her in the gut. thinking quickly, faith grabs his foot and throws it over his head, forcing him to flip over in a back layout. he lands hard on his stomach. buffy throws a punch at her assailant's face, but he ducks it. she tries for another one, but he blocks it. she then aims for his stomach with another punch, but is blocked yet again. the vampire tries to punch her, but she latches onto his arm and yanks him backwards, then forwards, and twists his arm, sending him flipping onto his back. giles calmly watches and takes notes.
scene direction: faith has a firm grip on her attacker, and throws his head backward, sending him flying backwards onto a bench. his momentum carries him sliding over it. faith jumps up onto the bench, following him over, ready to attack. buffy sends her vampire spinning back to the ground with a two-kick combination of a roundhouse followed by a hook kick. she pauses for a moment to let him get back up, and then roundhouse kicks him in the gut, followed immediately by a punch to his face as the momentum of her kick carries her around. giles picks up his cup of coffee and continues his calm vigilance.
scene direction: faith jumps down from the bench and roundhouse kicks her vampire in the face. buffy roundhouse kicks hers again in the stomach. faith punches her vampire in the stomach and takes aim with her stake. buffy shoves hers against faith's, and they end up back to back. the slayers both plunge their stakes into their respective demons simultaneously, causing them both to explode into ashes. after the dust settles, they give each other a high-five and head over to giles.
buffy: synchronized slaying.
faith: new olympic category?
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: whadaya think?
scene direction: giles lowers his coffee cup, but keeps it held at mouth level.
gwendolyn: sloppy.
scene direction: they all turn to look at the woman who's just walked into view. her hair is pulled up in a severe hair style, and she has a very serious look on her face.
gwendolyn: you telegraph punches, leave blind sides open and, uh, for a school-night slaying, take entirely too much time. which one of you is faith?
scene direction: giles looks back at the girls.
faith: depends. who the hell are you?
scene direction: giles turns back to the woman.
gwendolyn: gwendolyn post, mrs. your new watcher.
scene direction: the two slayers exchange a look, then look over at giles. he is still holding his cup and staring at mrs. post, too dumbfounded to speak.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: the library. giles is leaning against the stair railing, cleaning his glasses. buffy is sitting near the middle of the large central table.
scene direction: there are several books lying open on it. faith is standing by a corner of the table, addressing mrs. post, who is looking through some of giles' collection.
faith: i'm telling you, i don't need a new watcher. no offense, lady.
scene direction: faith gwendolyn looks at her
faith: i just have this problem with authority figures. they end up kind of dead.
scene direction: she nods sarcastically and takes a seat next to buffy.
scene direction: gwendolyn walking past the table
gwendolyn: duly noted, and fortunately, it's not up to you.
scene direction: buffy and faith exchange a look. gwendolyn walks around the table below the railing of the upper level, looking around at the few stacks there are in the study area of the library, apparently unaware that the main stacks are up the stairs and through a set of french doors, well out of view.
gwendolyn: mr. giles, where do you keep the rest of your books?
giles: i-i'm sorry.
scene direction: giles slips on his glasses
giles: the rest?
gwendolyn: yes, the actual library.
scene direction: giles gives her a confused look.
gwendolyn: oh.
scene direction: gwendolyn smiles thinly
gwendolyn: i see.
giles: i can assure you, mrs. post, this is the finest occult reference collection...
scene direction: gwendolyn interrupts
gwendolyn: ...this side of the atlantic, i'm sure. do you have hume's paranormal encyclopedia?
scene direction: giles looks away, knowing that while his collection is superior, it is still not complete.
gwendolyn: the labyrinth maps of malta?
scene direction: buffy gives him a hopeful look.
giles: it's on order.
gwendolyn: well, i suppose that you have sir robert kane's twilight compendium?
giles: oh! uh...
scene direction: giles looks around
giles: yes, i...
scene direction: giles spots the book
giles: yes!
scene direction: giles pulls it out
giles: yes, i do.
scene direction: giles holds it up
scene direction: gwendolyn unimpressed
gwendolyn: of course you do.
scene direction: gwendolyn paces past him
gwendolyn: i have been sent by the council for a very important reason. faith needs a watcher. i am to act in that capacity and report back.
scene direction: faith leans forward in her chair
faith: excuse me, mary poppins, you don't seem to be listening.
scene direction: giles interrupts
giles: faith, if the council feels that you need closer observation, then... we will all, of course, cooperate.
scene direction: faith leans back again, not at all happy with the situation.
gwendolyn: the council wishes me to report on the *entire* situation here,
scene direction: gwendolyn to giles
gwendolyn: including you.
scene direction: that takes giles by surprise.
buffy: mm! academic probation's not so funny today, huh, giles?
scene direction: buffy rolls her eyes innocently
scene direction: giles glares at her. she just gives it right back to him.
gwendolyn: the fact is, there is talk in the council that you have become a bit too...
scene direction: gwendolyn inhales
gwendolyn: american.
scene direction: giles taken aback
giles: me?
scene direction: buffy surprised
buffy: him?
gwendolyn: a demon named lagos is coming here to the hellmouth.
scene direction: gwendolyn condescendingly
gwendolyn: mr. giles, an illustration of lagos, if you please.
scene direction: giles a bit flustered
giles: oh, uh...
scene direction: giles looks at the books on the table
scene direction: yes. uh...
scene direction: he sits at the table and begins to look through one of the books.
gwendolyn: perhaps later.
scene direction: giles stops looking, very taken aback. he begins to seethe.
gwendolyn: lagos seeks the glove of myhnegon. no record of this glove's full power exists, but we do know it is highly dangerous and must not fall into the hands of a demon. lagos must be stopped.
scene direction: giles folds his hands over his books and looks up at her.
giles: what do you propose?
gwendolyn: well, if it's not too radical a suggestion, i thought we might kill him.
scene direction: giles turns his head away from her and takes off his glasses.
gwendolyn: i suggest two slayers at full strength for a coordinated hunt.
scene direction: buffy gives faith a look. faith just gives gwendolyn an even stare.
gwendolyn: we believe the glove to be buried in a tomb somewhere, so lagos will be headed for the cemetery.
giles: there is more than one in sunnydale.
gwendolyn: i see. how many?
giles: uh, twelve, within the city limits.
scene direction: gwendolyn takes a deep breath
gwendolyn: well, we'll just have to take them one at a time.
scene direction: giles puts his glasses back on and starts to look through his books again.
gwendolyn: anything in your books that might pinpoint the exact location of the tomb would be useful, but then, we cannot ask for miracles.
scene direction: giles lets his book drop to the table and makes a point of looking directly away from her, rubbing his fingers, keeping his cool.
gwendolyn: we will begin tomorrow at sunset. faith...
scene direction: gwendolyn faith almost startles
gwendolyn: with me, please.
scene direction: she gives faith a thin smile and walks from the library. faith gives buffy a glance, then follows her out. giles visibly relaxes when they've gone.
giles: that was bracing.
scene direction: he slaps his glasses onto the table and leans his lips into his fist.
buffy: interesting lady. can we kill her?
scene direction: giles lowers his fist
giles: i think the council might frown upon that.
scene direction: his expression indicates he's considering it anyway, but soon discards the notion.
giles: well...
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: how do you feel about a spot of training?
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. he and buffy are practicing t'ai chi in front of the great fireplace. angel concentrates on the exercises, but buffy watches his moves and does her best to mirror them. they each begin with their arms stretched high above and ahead of them, hands together. they lower their arms to waist level with a graceful bend at the elbows.
scene direction: buffy glances over at angel, watching his elegant movements. she turns her attention back to the exercise, and crosses her right wrist over her left. they both sweep their crossed arms in a wide arc from left to right, and then draw their hands in to their waists and make a quarter turn to their left, so that buffy has her back to angel. they both extend their arms and slowly raise them, never stopping their fluid movements, until their hands are again held high. angel takes the two steps over to buffy and puts his hands over hers. buffy looks up at his hands on hers as he pulls her arms down and around her. she slowly turns to face him and angles her face up toward him. their lips almost meet when buffy suddenly pulls away and walks over to one of the two couches set at right angles to each other to get her things.
buffy: uhh... i gotta go. big night for us slayer types.
scene direction: angel turns away, a confused expression on his face. buffy pulls on her backpack.
buffy: people to see, demons to kill.
scene direction: buffy starts to leave
buffy: better hurry before somebody figures out what we're doing.
scene direction: angel pulls on his shirt
angel: what are we doing?
scene direction: buffy stops
buffy: training.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: and almost kissing.
scene direction: angel looks at her and steps toward her as he buttons his shirt. buffy turns to face him.
buffy: sorry. it's just...
scene direction: buffy smiles weakly
buffy: old habit.
scene direction: buffy loses the smile
scene direction: bad, bad habit to be broken.
angel: it's hard.
buffy: it's not hard.
scene direction: buffy with resolve
buffy: cold turkey. that's the key to quitting.
scene direction: they both look at each other for a long moment, knowing it's just not that easy.
scene direction: buffy weakly and desperately
buffy: you think they make a patch for this?
angel: you have to go.
buffy: i really do.
scene direction: angel looks away as buffy turns again to go. she only gets a couple of steps when she sighs and turns to face angel again.
buffy: i'm gonna try and vent a little hormonal angst by going out there and killing a lagos, whatever that is.
scene direction: angel faces her again upon hearing that demon's name.
angel: lagos?
buffy: some demon looking for some all-powerful thingamabob,
scene direction: buffy angel sits, suddenly worried
buffy: and i gotta stop him before he unleashes unholy havoc,
scene direction: buffy sees his worried look
buffy: and it's another tuesday night in sunnydale.
scene direction: angel can't bring himself to look at her again, and so just stares off into space.
angel: be careful.
scene direction: buffy turns and heads out of the mansion. angel watches her back as she goes, and when she's gone, he gets up to start some work of his own.
scene change: cut to the library. giles is sitting at the large table reading through a book with a dozen other volumes open and spread out in front of him.
scene direction: willow is standing behind the railing of the stack level behind him.
scene direction: xander is standing at the end of the table. giles looks up from his book.
giles: oh, this is intolerable.
scene direction: giles slams the book shut
giles: there's not a word here about lagos or the glove.
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: we don't have time for this
scene direction: giles drops the book in frustration
giles: near-missing.
scene direction: giles turns to willow and xander
giles: just find out all you can about the demon, its-its-its strengths, its-its weaknesses,
scene direction: giles begins to pace
giles: its places of origin,
scene direction: giles stops and yanks off his glasses
giles: and most importantly,
scene direction: giles points at xander with his glasses
giles: what it plans to do with this blasted glove.
scene direction: xander gives giles an annoyed smile
xander: hey, you're not the watcher of me.
giles: then go home. but if you choose to stay, then work.
scene direction: he makes frustrated tracks into his office. xander stares after him for a moment, then starts up the stairs to the stack level for more research. willow steps over to meet him.
willow: ugh... it's late. i'm tired. what does he want from us, anyway?
scene direction: they head into the stacks.
xander: the number of a qualified surgeon to remove the british flag from his butt?
scene direction: they stop at a spot where a few books are lying open on the floor and sit down. xander takes one of them and starts to look through it.
willow: my eyes are all blurry.
scene direction: she leans forward and rests her head in her hands for a moment, then starts rubbing her temples with her fingers.
willow: ohh...
scene direction: she moans as she rubs. xander looks over at her, concerned. he sets down his book, nudges a bit closer and reaches over to do the rubbing for her. when she feels his fingers at her temples, willow drops her own hands into her lap and lets him minister to her, letting out a few more moans.
willow: oh, stop.
xander: right.
scene direction: xander continues rubbing
xander: stop means no...
scene direction: xander keeps rubbing
xander: and no means no, so, um...
scene direction: xander finally stops
xander: stop.
scene direction: he leans back away from her. she sits up a bit. he takes his book again to continue his research. suddenly willow reaches for him, grabs his face and plants a hard kiss on his lips. xander responds and puts his hands around her to pull her closer. they kiss passionately for a few seconds, when giles suddenly comes walking by, his attention focused on a book in his hands as he reads. willow and xander don't notice him at all.
giles: willow, xander...
scene direction: they stop kissing and quickly scramble to their feet.
giles: ...you can stop your, uh, studying.
scene direction: they wipe and cover their mouths in guilt, but aren't yet sure if they've been caught since giles is looking at a bookcase. willow bites her nails nervously.
giles: i've got what i need.
scene direction: xander trying to be cool
xander: what have you got?
giles: uh, the probable location of the glove of myhnegon.
scene direction: giles faces them
scene direction: it's, uh, housed in the von hauptman family crypt.
xander: yeah, that's that big one over at the restfield cemetery.
willow: yeah, well, that's great, giles. um, how'd you find it?
giles: i looked.
scene direction: giles continues his reading
xander: where's buffy at?
giles: uh, i'm not sure.
xander: well, i'll go check out this, uh, crypt.
scene direction: xander starts out
xander: um, tell her heads-up if she, uh, stops by.
scene direction: xander leaves
giles: yes, by all means, go.
scene direction: willow nervously
willow: a-and i'll just keep studying. i think we're on the verge of a big lagos breakthrough.
scene direction: giles looks up from his book
giles: no, i'd say we're done.
scene direction: he starts back out of the stacks. willow lets out a deep sigh, ridden with guilt and halfway convinced that they've been caught.
scene change: cut to the streets at night. faith and buffy walk along as people and cars go by.
faith: ronnie, deadbeat. steve, klepto. kenny... drummer. eventually, i just had to face up to my destiny as a loser magnet. now it's strictly get some, get gone. you can't trust guys.
buffy: you can trust some guys.
scene direction: buffy gets a doubtful look from faith
scene direction: really, i've read about them.
scene direction: faith laughs
faith: yeah. so, what about you?
buffy: you mean like, me and guys me?
faith: mm-hm.
buffy: not much to tell these days.
faith: yeah, but you gotta have stories. i mean, i've had my share of losers, but you... you boinked the undead. what was that like?
buffy: life with angel's... was complicated. it's still a little hard for me to talk about.
faith: well, try.
scene direction: they stop walking.
buffy: look, faith, all the angel issues are still kind of with me, so if you don't mind, i'd rather not.
scene direction: faith shrugs
faith: yeah.
scene direction: faith shrugs
faith: yeah, whatever.
scene direction: buffy looks away.
faith: you know what? we're oh for six tonight. why don't we just blow this off?
buffy: yeah. i am kinda beat. but-but shady hill's pretty close.
faith: i'll swing through it. it's on my way anyway.
buffy: alone? i-i don't know if i'd...
faith: i got miss priss on my back now. i don't need another baby- sitter. i'll holler if i'm having any fun.
scene direction: buffy smiles thinly
buffy: okay.
scene direction: faith nods down the street
faith: later.
scene direction: faith goes
buffy: thanks.
scene direction: she watches her go for a moment before turning and heading home.
scene change: cut to shady hill cemetery. faith walks around a hedge and into view, scanning the graveyard as she goes. suddenly the lid of a stone coffin slams into the ground in front of her. she jerks back, startled but unhurt. in front of her she sees lagos, a warrior demon, grabbing things out of the coffin and throwing them aside as he quickly rummages through it.
scene direction: faith to herself
faith: son of a bitch. it's my lucky day.
scene direction: she starts to run toward him and jumps into a flying side kick to lagos' back. he hardly budges and turns his head to see who is disturbing him.
scene direction: faith grabs his arm and whips him around to face her. she backhand punches him in the face and instantly follows up with another swing to his face, then punches him in the gut and again in the face. she pushes him away slightly to get some distance between them, and then roundhouse kicks him in the side. unfazed and tired of the interruption, lagos grabs her by the neck and throws her high and far. she slams into the side of a mausoleum and falls to the ground. lagos turns his attention back to the open coffin. faith scrambles to her feet and starts to run at him again. lagos hears her coming this time and turns to face her.
scene direction: she tries to grab his neck, but he blocks her arm and does an uppercut to faith's diaphragm, which makes her airborne once again. she hits the ground hard and starts to struggle for breath. lagos ignores her and goes back to his rummaging. he pulls the last of the coffin's contents out, sees that it's nothing he wants and throws it aside in disgust. he wastes no time getting out of there, stomping right past faith, not giving her even so much as another glance. with her breath knocked out of her, faith is unable to get up to pursue him.
scene change: cut to restfield cemetery. xander finds his way through the gravestones to the von hauptman family crypt. his breathing is heavy and nervous. he finds the crypt and peeks at it from behind a bush, making sure no one and nothing else is around. he steps out from behind the bush, nervously looking around while he makes his way toward the crypt.
scene direction: xander smiling, dripping with sarcasm
xander: hey, giles, here's a nifty idea: why don't i alleviate my guilt by goin' out and gettin' myself really, really killed?
scene direction: he stops in his tracks when he thinks he hears a noise. sure enough, a second later he can hear the sound of stone grinding against stone coming from inside the crypt. he swiftly ducks behind a group of bushes, crouches down and waits to see who will come out. a figure soon comes out of the crypt and pulls the door closed. in its arms it holds something wrapped in a bunch of rags. the figure turns its back to xander as it grabs the outer iron gate and swings it closed as well.
scene direction: xander rises up just a bit so he can better see who it is. the figure turns around again and begins to cautiously make its way out of the graveyard. as it nears xander, he sees that it's angel. xander doesn't take his eyes off of him as he walks past. when angel is far enough ahead of him, xander comes out from behind the bushes, pulls out his stake and starts to follow.
scene change: cut to the atrium at angel's mansion. xander sneaks down the stairs to the main gallery and tiptoes over to a window where he can see inside.
scene direction: there, to his shock, he sees buffy with angel, kissing passionately.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: angel's mansion. he and buffy are kissing passionately. the camera circles around them as they continue kissing. suddenly buffy breaks it off and takes a couple of steps backward and looks away from his face.
buffy: oh, god...
scene direction: angel confused
angel: buffy...
buffy: what am i doing?
scene direction: buffy looks up at him
buffy: what are *you* doing?
scene direction: angel still confused
angel: i don't know.
buffy: shame on you!
scene direction: angel doesn't know how to respond to that. he puts his hand to his forehead. buffy heads over to her things on the couch.
buffy: oh, god, i... i don't even know why i came back here.
scene direction: she starts to pull on her jacket. angel steps over and takes it from her hands.
angel: it's good you did.
scene direction: buffy looks up to him, waiting for an explanation.
angel: i think i have what you're looking for.
scene direction: he leads her by the hand over to a pedestal where the thing he got from the crypt lies, still wrapped up in rags.
buffy: great... just, wherever this was gift-wrapped, remind me not to shop there.
scene direction: he unwraps the rags to reveal their contents. it's an ancient-looking glove made of leather, chain mail and plate mail. there are small spikes along the plates that cover the back of the hand and the forearm. ringed around the opening are ten hinged claws that look something like crab legs, but made of steel and very sharp.
angel: glove of myhnegon.
buffy: the world's ugliest fashion accessory.
scene direction: she reaches out to touch it. angel quickly stays her hand with his.
angel: no, don't. once you put it on, the glove can never be removed.
buffy: so... no touching.
scene direction: buffy nods, looks at their hands
buffy: kinda like us.
scene direction: angel gets the hint and releases her hand. he wraps the glove back up in the rags.
buffy: you hold on to it. i'll... i'll tell giles in the morning. at least he'll be happy.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he is researching through a book at his desk.
scene direction: gwendolyn walks in front of the camera and around to giles' side. he seems to have found something.
giles: ah! yes. there we are.
scene direction: in the book is a sketch of a battle scene with an inset of the glove. it resembles the real thing only vaguely. he sets the book down for her to see.
giles: there's a wood engraving. see? the glove of myhnegon.
scene direction: gwendolyn looks at it, unimpressed
gwendolyn: yes, engraved by father theodore of wolsham.
giles: yes.
gwendolyn: based, i believe, on very sketchy and unreliable folk legends. the pictures are fun to look at, mr. giles, but one really ought to read the nice words as well.
scene direction: giles looks up from the books, but stares ahead, not wanting gwendolyn to see the look of raw annoyance in his eyes. in the kitchen the tea kettle begins to whistle.
giles: ah.
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: yes.
scene direction: giles puts his hands in his pockets
giles: some tea, perhaps?
scene direction: he strides into the kitchen. gwendolyn takes the few steps over to the bar where he has two cups already set out for the tea and sits on one of the stools. giles grabs the kettle from the stove.
gwendolyn: i know that you must find me tiresome, but it's insidious, really.
scene direction: giles pours the hot water into one of the cups. gwendolyn looks down at the teabag in her still empty cup, takes it out and sets it aside.
gwendolyn: a person slips up on the little things, and soon everything has gone to hell in a handbasket.
scene direction: giles doesn't say anything to her rejection of his teabag. she opens her purse and pulls out a small box with her own supply of tea.
gwendolyn: for example... buffy, your slayer...
scene direction: giles struggling to control his voice
giles: mrs. post...
scene direction: giles pours her hot water
giles: i can assure you that buffy is both dedicated and industrious, and i am in complete control of my slayer.
scene direction: suddenly his apartment door whips open, and xander runs into the room.
xander: giles! we have a big problem. it's buffy.
scene direction: gwendolyn give giles a snooty look.
giles: will you excuse us?
scene direction: he walks very stiffly from the kitchen and nods to xander to follow.
scene direction: they go to the far side of the room and whisper between themselves.
scene direction: gwendolyn takes her own teabag and puts it in her cup to steep.
gwendolyn: would you like some assistance?
scene direction: giles and xander stop their whispering and look at her.
scene direction: giles smiling thinly
giles: thank you. that won't be necessary.
scene direction: they go back to their private discussion. gwendolyn looks at her cup to see how far along her tea is.
scene change: cut to sunnydale high. cut to the library. giles paces slowly in the main area. behind him the door opens, and he hears someone walk in. he slowly turns to see that it's buffy.
buffy: lagos is out of luck. i got the magic mitten thingy.
scene direction: she stops to see that xander, cordelia, oz and willow are all sitting at the center table looking as glum as giles does.
buffy: what's with all the tragedy masks?
scene direction: giles indicates a chair
giles: better take a seat, buffy.
scene direction: xander gets up out of his chair, nudges it over a bit so it's at the head of the table, and steps away to stand next to cordelia. buffy slowly steps over to the chair.
buffy: what's going on?
scene direction: buffy sits
giles: we know angel is alive.
scene direction: giles buffy looks shocked
giles: xander saw you with him. it would appear that you've been hiding him and that you lied to us.
scene direction: buffy looks away, trying to absorb this new turn of events.
willow: nobody's here to blame you, buffy. but this is serious. you need help.
scene direction: buffy looks up at willow
buffy: it's not what you think.
xander: hope not. because i think you're harboring a vicious killer.
scene direction: buffy can't believe xander's callousness.
scene direction: willow trying to mediate
willow: this isn't about attacking buffy. remember, 'i' statements only. 'i feel angry.' 'i feel worried.' cordelia: fine. here's one: i feel worried... about me! last time around, angel barely laid a hand on buffy. he was *way* more interested in killing her friends.
buffy: but he's better now.
xander: better for how long, buffy? i mean, did you even think about that?
scene direction: buffy stands up
buffy: what is this, demons anonymous?
scene direction: buffy starts to leave
buffy: i don't need an intervention, here.
giles: oh, don't you?
scene direction: giles buffy stops and faces him
giles: you must've known it was wrong seeing angel or you wouldn't have hidden it from all of us.
scene direction: buffy desperate and defensive
buffy: i was going to tell you, i was. i-it was just that i... i didn't know why he came back. i just wanted to wait.
xander: for what? for angel to go psycho again the next time you give him a happy?
scene direction: buffy raising her voice defensively
buffy: i'm not going to...
scene direction: buffy raises her hand to him
buffy: we're not together like that.
oz: but you were kissing him.
scene direction: willow gives oz a quick look, then looks at buffy, worried. buffy thinks about the implication of oz's accusation, and looks at xander.
buffy: you were spying on me?
scene direction: buffy steps toward him
buffy: what gives you the right?
cordelia: what gives you the right to suck face with your demon lover again?
scene direction: buffy defensive again
buffy: it was an accident.
xander: what, you just tripped and fell on his lips?
buffy: it was wrong, okay? i know that, and i know that it can't happen again. but you guys have to believe me. i would never put you in any danger. if i thought for a second that angel was going to hurt anyone...
xander: ...you would stop him. like you did last time with ms.
scene direction: calendar.
scene direction: buffy is completely taken aback by xander's totally insensitive and unfair attack, and can't utter a word in response. willow senses that it's time to intercede.
scene direction: willow nervously
willow: buffy, i feel that when it comes to angel, you can't see straight. and that's why we're, we're all gonna help you face this.
buffy: but he's better now. i swear. look, you guys, he's the one that found the glove of myhnegon. h-he's keeping it safe for us in the mansion.
scene direction: xander spreads his arms
xander: right! great plan. leave tons of firepower with the scary guy, and leave us to clean up the mess.
scene direction: he makes tracks to leave the library, intent on doing something about this. buffy takes him by the arm and spins him around to face her.
buffy: you would just love an excuse to hurt him, wouldn't you?
xander: i don't need an excuse. i think lots of dead people actually constitutes a reason.
buffy: right. this is all nobility. this has nothing to do with jealousy.
scene direction: xander gives her a haughty grin, but is interrupted before he can continue.
cordelia: hello? miss not-over-yourself-yet?
scene direction: buffy shakes her head in warning
buffy: don't you start with me.
scene direction: cordelia looks to giles for support.
scene direction: willow upset
willow: giles, no one's doing the 'i' statements!
giles: that's enough! everybody. now, buffy knows our concerns, and her actions, however ill-advised, can be understood.
scene direction: giles cordelia shakes her head
giles: our... priority right now is to retrieve the glove of myhnegon and try to destroy it. now, all of you, back to classes.
scene direction: one after the other they all get up, gather their things and go. giles goes into his office, his hands firmly stuffed into his pockets. once there he takes off his jacket and hangs it around the back of his chair.
scene direction: buffy follows him and stops by the office door.
scene direction: buffy uneasily
buffy: thanks for the bail in there.
scene direction: giles doesn't face her, and instead unbuttons his vest.
buffy: i know this is a lot to absorb, but angel did find the glove, and that was a good...
scene direction: giles interrupts
giles: be quiet.
scene direction: giles slowly turns to face her
scene direction: giles sternly
giles: i won't remind you that the fate of the world often lies with the slayer. what would be the point? nor shall i remind you that you've jeopardized the lives of all that you hold dear by harboring a known murderer. but sadly, i must remind you that angel tortured me... for hours... for pleasure. you should have told me he was alive. you didn't. you have no respect for me, or the job i perform.
scene direction: buffy averts her eyes in shame. giles turns back to his desk, sits down and leans back in thought. buffy just stands in the doorway for a long moment before leaving quietly.
scene change: cut to faith's motel room. there is a knock at the door. faith opens it, stake raised and ready. she is surprised to see gwendolyn standing there. she lowers the stake as mrs. post enters.
gwendolyn: a word of advice? vampires rarely knock. especially in daylight.
scene direction: gwendolyn closes the door
faith: oh, right.
scene direction: gwendolyn looks around
gwendolyn: so... this is your home.
faith: yeah.
scene direction: faith gestures around the room
faith: the decorator actually just left.
gwendolyn: faith, do you know who the spartans were?
scene direction: gwendolyn leans against the dresser
faith: wild stab: a bunch of guys from spart?
scene direction: faith sits on the bed
gwendolyn: they were the fiercest warriors known to ancient greece. and they lived in quarters very much like these. do you know why? because a true fighter needs nothing else. i'm going to be very hard on you, faith. i will not brook insolence or laziness. and i will not allow blunders like last night's attack. you will probably hate me a great deal of the time.
scene direction: faith smiles sardonically
faith: you think?
scene direction: gwendolyn steps over to the bed
gwendolyn: but i will make you a better slayer,
scene direction: gwendolyn sits next to faith
gwendolyn: and that will keep you alive. you have to trust that i am right. god only knows what mr. giles has been filling your head with.
faith: giles is okay.
scene direction: gwendolyn stands
gwendolyn: his methods are unfathomable to me. i find him entirely confounding. but that is not important. let him have his games and secret meetings.
faith: what meetings?
gwendolyn: oh, i don't know. something with buffy and her friends.
faith: oh, right. i guess that doesn't include me.
gwendolyn: and why does he let her socialize so much? it hardly seems... no matter. would you like to do some training?
faith: training?
scene direction: faith stands up
faith: as in kicking and punching and stabbing?
scene direction: gwendolyn smiles
gwendolyn: yes, that's the idea.
faith: i'm your girl.
scene change: cut to the halls at sunnydale high. the bell rings. buffy walks around the corner and stops when she sees willow at her locker. she takes a breath to calm herself and heads over to her friend.
buffy: hey.
willow: hey!
scene direction: willow continues gathering her stuff
buffy: so on a scale of one to a million, how much are you hating me right now?
scene direction: willow jumpy, trying to hide her feelings
willow: zero. you were scared, you kept a secret, you know?
scene direction: willow zips closed her backpack
willow: that's-it-it's okay. i mean, secrets aren't bad. you know, they're normal.
scene direction: willow slips her pack onto her shoulder
willow: they're better than normal. they're good. secrets are good. must be a reason why we keep them, right?
scene direction: willow closes her locker
buffy: yeah, i guess.
scene direction: they start down the hall.
willow: so, are you going to the bronze tonight, or, uh, are you gonna sneak away for a not-so-secret rendezvous with angel?
buffy: none of the above. i'm gonna try and kill this lagos guy. peace offering to giles.
willow: well, angel has the glove now, right?
buffy: yep. but lagos doesn't know that. i figure sooner or later he's bound to show up at that crypt looking for it.
willow: ah, but instead he finds a buffy in a not-so-good mood.
buffy: that's my brilliant plan.
scene change: cut to the bronze that evening. xander makes his breaking shot at a pool table. he goes over to the pocket where he accidentally sank his cue ball, retrieves it and walks back around the table to continue practicing. faith approaches the table.
faith: you look pissed.
xander: rough day.
scene direction: xander chooses his shot
faith: tell me about it.
scene direction: xander places the cue ball
xander: rather just shoot.
scene direction: xander aims his cue stick
faith: don't think i don't know what you and your pals were talking about behind my back today.
scene direction: xander takes his shot
xander: yeah? and what was that?
scene direction: xander looks for his next shot
faith: more about this glove deal than you're saying.
xander: the glove of myhnegon? right.
scene direction: xander aims his cue stick
xander: how'd you like a hit of some real news: angel's still alive.
scene direction: he takes his shot and starts walking around the table again, looking for his next shot. faith looks at him in wide-eyed surprise.
faith: the vampire.
xander: back in town. saw him myself. toting the popular and famous glove.
scene direction: he bends down again to take aim for his shot.
faith: angel.
scene direction: xander makes this shot and watches the balls ricochet.
faith: guy like that, with that kind of glove, could kill a whole mess of people.
xander: said the same thing to buffy myself. weird how she didn't seem to care.
scene direction: xander aims for his next shot
faith: buffy knew he was alive.
scene direction: xander takes his shot.
faith: i can't believe her.
scene direction: xander walks around the table
xander: she says he's clean.
faith: yeah, well, i say we can't afford to find out.
scene direction: faith has xander's full attention
faith: i say i deal with this problem right now. i say i slay.
xander: can i come?
scene direction: he puts down his cue stick and they head out.
scene change: cut to giles' office at the library. he is researching at his desk. he hears footsteps and turns around to stand up and see who it is.
gwendolyn: you wanted to see me, mr. giles?
scene direction: giles grabs his coat
giles: yes. i do apologize for bringing you in at this late hour.
scene direction: giles pulls it on
gwendolyn: please. a good watcher must be awake and alert at all hours.
giles: would you like some tea?
scene direction: he tosses his glasses onto his desk and steps over to his tea-making implements to prepare his teapot and two cups.
gwendolyn: god, yes, please. i'm completely knackered.
scene direction: gwendolyn goes to giles' chair
gwendolyn: i spent the afternoon training with faith.
scene direction: gwendolyn sits
gwendolyn: she doesn't lack for energy.
scene direction: giles chuckles
giles: she's your first slayer, i take it?
gwendolyn: if you're questioning my qualifications...
giles: no, i'm not.
scene direction: giles pours water from the kettle into his teapot
giles: i, uh, have the utmost respect for your methods...
scene direction: giles faces her, holding the teapot
giles: in my own american way.
scene direction: giles leans against his desk
giles: i also have the glove.
scene direction: giles gwendolyn looks at him expectantly
giles: oh, not actually on me, but, uh, i believe it's safe. it's in a mansion on crawford street. a-a-a friend of buffy's is keeping it there.
scene direction: gwendolyn stands up
gwendolyn: well. we must get to it. immediately. hide it before someone else finds it.
giles: or better still, destroy it.
scene direction: gwendolyn surprised
gwendolyn: destroy it?
scene direction: giles stands up and sets down the teapot
giles: yes, i-i... i didn't think it could be done either, but...
scene direction: giles goes to his desk for a book
giles: it involves transforming fire
scene direction: giles show her the book
giles: into living flame and immolating the glove.
scene direction: gwendolyn reads the pages where giles indicates.
giles: i-i-it's complex, but, uh, i believe i have all the necessary materials.
scene direction: he goes back to his desk and checks his gathered inventory.
gwendolyn: well,
scene direction: gwendolyn puts the book down
gwendolyn: i must say, mr. giles... good show.
scene direction: she steps up behind him and hits him across the back of the neck with a wooden tribal statue. his knees give and he stumbles, but doesn't fall.
scene direction: he turns to face her, giving her a stunned look.
gwendolyn: good show indeed.
scene direction: she swings the statue again at his temple. it hits him hard, and he falls unconscious to the floor.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the restfield cemetery in front of the von hauptman family crypt. willow paces and buffy sits on a stone bench while they wait for lagos to show up.
willow: um, not to downplay my own slaying abilities, which in some circles are considered formidable, but shouldn't faith be here?
buffy: i tried calling, but no one was home. look, if you're feeling any demon-o-phobia, please, splitting is totally an option. you're not the one in trouble with giles.
willow: that's true.
scene direction: willow continues pacing
buffy: how long do you think he can stay angry at me, anyway?
willow: the emotional marathon man?
scene direction: willow shrugs
buffy: yeah. i can't really blame him. it's weird, though. now that my secret... angel, it's all out in the open... i feel better.
willow: well, *sure* you do. this big burden's been lifted. i mean, keeping secrets is a lot of work.
scene direction: willow stops pacing
willow: one could hypothetically imagine.
buffy: you have no idea.
scene direction: willow laughs uneasily
willow: none whatsoever. but...
scene direction: willow sits next to buffy
willow: can i ask you a question?
scene direction: willow buffy nods
willow: when you were with angel and nobody knew about it, did that make it feel, you know, sexier somehow?
buffy: not really. it's too much pressure. after a while, it even makes the fun parts... not so fun.
scene direction: willow disappointed
willow: oh.
scene direction: buffy wondering what's up
buffy: what makes you think all this secret stuff is sexy, anyway?
scene direction: willow nervously defensive
willow: nothing. i'm just wondering. gotta keep asking the big old questions when you're blessed with this girl's thirst for knowledge and...
scene direction: willow gives in
willow: okay. there's something i have to tell you.
buffy: what?
scene direction: willow gets up
willow: okay. this will make me feel better, right? you know, i always consider myself a good person. floss, do my homework, never cheat. but lately, and please don't judge me on this, but i want you to be the first to know that, that...
scene direction: willow sees lagos
willow: there's a demon behind you.
scene direction: buffy looks behind her and kicks her legs up to spin herself around on the bench. she uses the momentum of the spin to start a running attack.
scene direction: she jumps into a twin pike kick to lago's stomach. it has no real effect on lagos, just making him take a step backward as she falls flat to the ground. willow looks on, worried and unable to help. lagos reaches down for buffy and grabs her by the neck. he pulls her up only to flip her back down to the ground in a sloppy front tuck. she lands hard on her back. willow wants to help, but can only watch. buffy gets to her feet and comes at lagos with a combination of a punch to the gut and the face, a half spin, a backhand punch to the face, another half spin and another backhand punch. she tries for an elbow jab, but he blocks it, grabs her arm and reaches for her leg, and lifts her up above his head.
scene direction: willow is afraid for her friend and waves her hands wildly in protest.
willow: don't...
scene direction: lagos suddenly drops buffy, and she lands hard on her back. willow cringes at the sight. buffy quickly gets to her feet and steps to her right as lagos swings a fist at her head. he misses her and smashes his fist into a stone cross. taking advantage of the opening, buffy steps in and front snap kicks him in the gut, following up with a roundhouse kick to his face, a full spin and another roundhouse kick to his crotch.
scene direction: lagos doubles over in pain. willow winces at how painful it looked.
scene direction: buffy spies the battle-ax on his back.
buffy: now we're talking.
scene direction: she grabs the ax, pulls it from its sheath and swings it around as lagos straightens back up. in one stroke lagos is suddenly headless. his head rolls along the ground a ways before coming to rest. willow pumps her fists into the air in front of her.
willow: yes!
scene direction: she quickly plays down her gesture into crossed arms. buffy comes walking back to her.
buffy: sorry about that. so, what were you saying?
willow: oh, i...
scene direction: willow decides against a confession
willow: i opened my sat test booklet five minutes early.
scene direction: willow buffy gives her a blank look
willow: just doesn't seem important now, does it?
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: your secret's safe with me.
scene direction: buffy looks at lagos' body
buffy: come on. let's go bring giles some happiness.
scene direction: she shoulders the battle-ax, and the two girls head for the library.
scene change: cut to the library. faith and xander barge in and head for the cage, and the weapons cabinet within.
xander: good old sunnydale library. fully equipped with reference books, file cards...
scene direction: xander opens the cabinet doors
xander: and weapons.
faith: beauty.
scene direction: faith reaches in
xander: i call crossbow.
scene direction: xander reaches for it
faith: you got it.
scene direction: they gather an array of weapons. xander grabs some bolts for the bow.
scene direction: they close the doors when they have what they want.
xander: all right, ready to go?
faith: that i am.
scene direction: they start to head out, when xander hears a moan coming from giles' office.
xander: wait.
faith: what?
scene direction: xander hurries into the office. he sets down the crossbow when he sees giles on the floor and kneels down to help him.
xander: oh, my god. it's giles!
scene direction: xander holds his head
xander: giles, can you hear me?
scene direction: xander looks around
xander: what the hell happened?
faith: gee, let me guess.
scene direction: xander trying not to panic
xander: stop. hold it. just think a minute.
faith: yeah, i'm thinking. thinking buffy's ex-meat did this.
scene direction: xander grabs the phone
xander: it's not angel's style.
scene direction: xander dials 911
faith: the guy's a demon! how much more proof do you need?
xander: bite marks would be nice.
scene direction: xander into the phone
xander: yeah, i have a medical emergency. sunnydale high.
faith: screw this waiting crap.
scene direction: faith starts to go
xander: faith, if we leave, giles could die!
scene direction: faith from the checkout counter
faith: yeah, and he's gonna have a whole lot of company, unless *i* do something permanent.
scene direction: faith starts to go again
xander: wait!
faith: for what? you to grow a pair? you handle the baby-sit, and i'm gonna kill angel.
scene direction: faith strides out
xander: damn it!
scene direction: he waits on the phone, holding giles' head.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. he has a fire going in an urn and several small bowls of powders in various colors on a small table.
angel: exorere, flamma vitae. prodi ex loco tuo elementorum, in hunc mundum vivorum.
translation: arise, flame of life. come forth from your place of the elements, into this world of the living.
scene direction: he shakes some of a green powder into his hand, throws it into the flame, and it begins to burn green.
angel: exorere, flamma vitae. prodi ex loco tuo elementorum, in hunc mundum vivorum.
translation: arise, flame of life. come forth from your place of the elements, into this world of the living.
scene direction: he shakes some of a red powder into his hand, throws it into the flame, and it begins to burn red.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy and willow open the doors and walk in.
buffy: giles is gonna be psyched that we showed up stuffy old mrs. post.
scene direction: they see the paramedics there with giles on a gurney. buffy tosses the battle-ax over the counter.
buffy: oh, my god.
scene direction: buffy runs to giles' side
scene direction: paramedic into her radio
paramedic: sunnydale medical...
buffy: what happened?
scene direction: paramedic into her radio
paramedic: ...caucasian male, mid-forties...
buffy: giles...
paramedic: ...blunt object head trauma. notify er, we're bringing him in.
buffy: what happened?
paramedic: no time for this.
scene direction: paramedic starts to wheel him out
scene direction: giles feebly
giles: wait...
scene direction: giles the paramedics stop
giles: buffy, you must... must destroy the glove.
scene direction: paramedic sternly
paramedic: you want him to live? get out of the way.
scene direction: she and her partner quickly roll giles from the library.
giles: use... living... flame...
paramedic: move!
scene direction: they slam the library doors open with the gurney and turn down the hall.
scene direction: willow looks at xander, worried and wanting to know what went down.
scene direction: buffy watches until the gurney has disappeared, then also turns to xander for an explanation. he just gives her a blank stare.
buffy: what happened?
xander: your boyfriend's not as cured as you thought.
buffy: what makes you think that angel had anything to do with this?
xander: we saw what you saw.
buffy: so you just assume?
xander: i didn't. faith did.
scene direction: willow gives buffy a concerned look.
scene direction: buffy very worried
buffy: what did you tell her?
xander: only what everyone knows. she's a big girl. came to her own conclusions.
scene direction: buffy angry
buffy: how much of a head start does she have?
xander: ten minutes.
scene direction: buffy steps over to willow
buffy: go through giles' research. figure out how to destroy the glove.
scene direction: she glares at xander for a second, not believing that he could actually do such a thing, and then runs from the library. willow watches her go, then looks at xander accusingly. he tries to say something, but willow doesn't let him get a single word out.
willow: shut up and help me.
scene direction: she heads for giles' office. xander follows close behind.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. the red living flame burns intensely in the urn.
scene direction: angel turns around to get the glove, but stops when he sees gwendolyn walk in. he stares at her unwaveringly.
angel: what do you want?
gwendolyn: gwen post. mr. giles sent me.
angel: what for?
gwendolyn: to help you destroy the glove.
scene direction: gwendolyn looks at the urn
gwendolyn: is that the living flame?
angel: yes.
scene direction: gwendolyn goes to the table by the urn
gwendolyn: look, i'm sorry to be so abrupt, but lagos is on his way here now.
scene direction: gwendolyn looks it over
gwendolyn: if you're performing the ritual incorrectly, it will only make the glove more powerful.
angel: alright.
scene direction: angel steps up to the flame
gwendolyn: good. where is the glove?
angel: it's in the trunk.
scene direction: he turns around again to get the glove from the trunk. gwendolyn grabs a shovel that's leaning against the table and swings it hard into his head. he falls to the floor unconscious.
gwendolyn: that's what i love about this town. everyone's so helpful.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: angel's mansion. gwendolyn hurries over to the trunk and tries to open it. she finds it locked.
gwendolyn: bugger.
scene direction: she tries yanking at the old padlock, but it doesn't give.
gwendolyn: bugger!
scene direction: she takes the shovel and jams it into the padlock a few times. the old lock breaks readily. she reaches down to remove it. behind her angel gets up from the floor sporting his game face.
angel: okay...
scene direction: gwendolyn looks at him in surprise.
angel: that hurt.
scene direction: gwendolyn holds the shovel defensively
gwendolyn: it was supposed to kill you. if you'd been human, it would have. but...
scene direction: gwendolyn breaks the handle over her knee
gwendolyn: i believe this is your poison.
scene direction: she swings at angel's midsection with her long makeshift stake, but he sidesteps her to avoid the blow. she swings back the other way, but this time aims for his face, and he ducks it. she swings again, but angel middle blocks the hit and takes the opportunity to punch her in the face. she falls down hard and loses her grip on the shovel handle. she scrambles onto all fours and starts to make a run for it. angel circles around the urn with the living flame, grabs her by the back of the neck as she rises to her feet, pushes down on her neck to stop her and throws her against a wall. she slides to the floor nearly unconscious. angel grabs her by the shoulder just as faith barges in holding a long club with a steel hook embedded in the business end.
faith: mrs. post!
scene direction: angel lets go of gwendolyn, roars and faces his new adversary.
scene direction: faith intensely angry
faith: i can't believe how much i'm gonna kill you.
scene direction: angel stands his ground
angel: you're *not* getting that glove.
faith: you wanna bet?
scene direction: before she has a chance to attack with her club, angel does a low in-to- out crescent kick, knocking it from her hands. faith body checks him, but he easily absorbs the blow, taking only a slight step backward.
scene direction: gwendolyn begins to come to, and watches the fight. angel does a backhand swing to faith's head, making it snap back and to the side. she whirls back around, infuriated, and delivers a backhand punch to his face followed immediately with another punch. angel tries to return with a punch, but he swings too wide, and faith has plenty of time to duck it. angel's follow through leaves him in an awkward position, and faith takes immediate advantage. she bends over his right side and holds onto him for support as she kicks up backwards, hitting him in the head with a reverse snap kick. he is dazed with pain. she steps away from his side and stomps down on the back of his right knee, causing him to collapse.
scene direction: faith grabs angel by the shirt and launches him into the air. he lands on one side of the couch and backrolls over the coffee table to the other section set at a right angle. he is severely stunned. faith runs over to him, sees that he is defenseless and raises her stake. she swings down hard with it directly at his chest, when out of nowhere an arm reaches in and stays her swing. she looks to her side and sees that it's buffy.
scene direction: faith very confused
faith: what?
scene direction: buffy grabs her by the waist and throws her away from angel.
scene change: cut to the library. willow and xander are grinding and mixing powders for the spell to invoke living flame.
xander: think we got it?
willow: well, it's either the catalyst for living flame or just some really smelly sand.
scene direction: willow looks at xander, worried
willow: we'll have to test this.
xander: i'll double-check.
scene direction: he reads through his book, and willow notices his suddenly intent stare while reading.
willow: what?
xander: i know what the glove does.
scene direction: he angles the book so she can read and points to a passage. she quickly absorbs the information.
willow: there's no time to test this.
scene direction: she quickly grabs a plastic bag and pulls it open. xander blows out the candles on the table, grabs the grinding bowl and pours the mix into the plastic bag. willow spins the neck of the bag to seal it, and they both race out of the library.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. buffy is faced off against faith, ready to fight.
buffy: i can't let you do it, faith.
faith: you're confused, twinkie.
scene direction: faith smiles ironically
faith: let me clear you up.
scene direction: faith points at angel
faith: vampire.
scene direction: faith points at herself
faith: slayer.
scene direction: faith points at angel again
faith: dead vampire.
buffy: there's a lot that you don't understand.
scene direction: gwendolyn groggy
gwendolyn: faith...
scene direction: the two slayers look over at her.
scene direction: gwendolyn weak from her fight
gwendolyn: she doesn't know. she's blinded by love.
buffy: faith, no.
gwendolyn: trust me.
scene direction: faith looks back and forth between them.
scene direction: buffy drops her guard
buffy: faith, we can figure this out...
scene direction: faith does a full spinning hook kick to buffy's face. she takes the hit hard, falling to her knees. faith delivers two roundhouse kicks to buffy's gut while she's still on the floor. buffy stands up and does an uppercut punch to faith's right arm, knocking the stake from her hand.
scene direction: buffy backhand punches faith in the face, and punches her in the chest.
scene direction: she shoves faith backward, and faith takes a few stumbling steps, trying to steady herself. buffy does a jumping double roundhouse kick, alternating her legs, both of which are blocked by faith. buffy tries a backhand punch, but faith blocks it. buffy whirls around and punches faith in the face with her other hand, catching faith off guard. faith leans in again and tries to punch buffy, but she middle blocks it and punches faith in the gut and again in the face. faith drops to the floor, but thinks fast and tries to sweep kick buffy's legs out from under her, but buffy jumps to avoid it. faith scrambles back up, and the two girls face off again. buffy blocks two roundhouse kicks from faith.
scene direction: buffy tries a high out-to-in crescent kick, which faith easily ducks.
scene direction: faith rises back up and does a spinning back kick that hits buffy squarely in the back, sending her to her knees. faith rushes up behind her and grabs her in a choke hold around her neck. buffy grabs faith's arm and twists her body around, trying to throw faith off, but to no avail. she grabs faith's fingers and pulls them backward, cracking her knuckles.
faith: auuuugh!
scene direction: now buffy is able to throw faith off with a twist of her body, and both girls end up on the floor. faith rolls into a wall, hitting her back against a corner. buffy scrambles to her feet and runs at faith, but she snaps out her leg and trips buffy, making her fall again. buffy rolls over her back and to her knees. while she is still crouched, faith comes in for an axe kick, trying to hit her on the way down. buffy cross blocks her leg, grabs her ankle and raises her arms, throwing faith off balance and to the floor. faith quickly gets to her feet, and the two slayers face off once again. buffy rushes faith and grabs her by the waist. the two of them go crashing through the french doors out into the atrium. when the glass has fallen, they both roll away from each other and to their feet, facing off a fourth time. faith gives buffy an angry look, spins all the way around and backhand punches buffy in the face.
scene direction: faith tries another backhand punch, which buffy blocks. faith punches buffy in the gut and does another backhand punch to her face, this time connecting and forcing buffy to her hands and knees. faith advances on her, but buffy does a crouching back kick to her stomach, making her stagger backward into a metal garden chair. she quickly gets up, grabs the chair and throws it at buffy, who sidesteps it, and it clangs to the stone walk.
scene direction: cut inside. xander and willow come running into the mansion and find gwendolyn still dazed by the wall.
gwendolyn: the glove! it's in the trunk.
scene direction: xander reassuringly
xander: we'll get it.
scene direction: gwendolyn to xander
gwendolyn: help faith.
scene change: cut to the atrium. faith does a half-spinning crescent kick, which buffy ducks, but gets hit instead with faith's next roundhouse kick. faith swings a punch at buffy, but she ducks it and blocks a backhand from faith as well. buffy fakes a punch and instead elbows faith in the gut.
scene direction: faith ducks the next punch. buffy pushes faith backwards and does a half spinning hook kick to her face, almost making her lose her balance.
scene direction: cut inside. xander looks up at the two slayers fighting it out. he rushes out to intercede. willow helps gwendolyn to her feet.
scene change: cut to the atrium. faith does a jumping roundhouse kick, which buffy ducks. xander comes rushing out through the broken doors.
xander: what are you...
scene direction: xander sees them faced off again and gets between them
xander: stop! guys, listen!
scene direction: faith grabs him by the shirt and throws him into a lamppost. he bounces off of it and hits the stone walkway hard. back at the doorway, buffy does a diving punch, knocking faith in the head and making her cry out in pain.
scene direction: cut inside. gwendolyn makes a beeline for the trunk with the glove. she throws the lid open and unfolds the rags wrapped around the glove.
scene direction: reverently she takes the glove out of the trunk and cradles it in her hands.
scene direction: gwendolyn smiling wickedly
gwendolyn: finally.
scene direction: behind her willow is confused by her words and actions. sensing willow's proximity, gwendolyn swings the glove around in a wide arc, hitting her in the face. she falls to the marble floor unconscious.
scene change: cut to the atrium. faith punches, but buffy blocks. buffy tries to punch, but is also blocked. faith tries again, and is blocked again.
scene direction: buffy grabs onto faith's throat, and faith reaches up to try to pry buffy's hand off of her.
scene direction: cut inside. gwendolyn holds the glove in her left hand and looks down at it. slowly she slides her right arm into the glove. once it's inside, she makes a fist with the clawed fingers. suddenly the metal claws surrounding the glove's opening begin closing, puncturing her arm one at a time until all ten have become permanently embedded in her forearm's flesh. she holds up her gloved arm and smiles maniacally at the sight, seemingly oblivious to the pain. she extends her arm above her, up toward the huge skylight and recites the gaelic spell that will invoke the power of the glove.
gwendolyn: taou huogan maqachte milegaing!
translation: be mine, the power of myhnegon!
scene direction: up in the sky lightning strikes and thunder booms. outside buffy and faith stop their fighting to see what's going on. inside gwendolyn breathes excitedly as she waits for the power to become hers. lightning strikes again above the skylight. outside buffy and faith stare at gwendolyn, still holding onto each other, not yet willing to take the chance on releasing their grip. inside gwendolyn stares intently up at the sky, awaiting her reward for being the new wearer of the glove of myhnegon. outside the two slayers realize their fight is no longer with each other, and let go.
faith: what's going on?
scene direction: gwendolyn allows herself to be distracted, lowers her gloved arm and looks over at faith.
scene direction: gwendolyn smiling maliciously
gwendolyn: faith! a word of advice: you're an idiot.
scene direction: faith and buffy both look at her in disbelief. gwendolyn once again raises her arm to the sky and utters the words that will call forth the power of the glove.
gwendolyn: tauo freim!
translation: be free!
scene direction: on the floor willow wakes up and turns around just in time to see a blindlingly bright bolt of lightning smash through the skylight and strike the glove. shards of shattered glass fall everywhere, but gwendolyn ignores them and rejoices in her new-found power. she turns to face the slayers and extends the glove toward them.
gwendolyn: tauo freim!
translation: be free!
scene direction: the bolt of energy leaps from the glove at the two girls. they scramble out of the way, and the bolt hits a tree in the atrium, instantly setting it ablaze. buffy and faith look at it in amazement, then turn their attention to what they can do about gwendolyn. angel also comes to now, and quickly takes in the situation. willow gets to her feet and begins backing away, stiff with fear, staring at gwendolyn in shocked horror. the would-be watcher spins around and aims the glove at her.
gwendolyn: tauo freim!
translation: be free!
scene direction: thinking fast, angel jumps to his feet and rushes toward willow. a lightning bolt shoots through the skylight, hits the glove and is redirected at willow. angel reaches her just in time and roughly tackles her to the floor out of harm's way. the bolt hits the fireplace instead and leaves a deep scorch mark in the marble. outside buffy comes up with a plan.
scene direction: buffy to faith
buffy: can you draw her fire?
faith: you bet i can.
buffy: go do it.
scene direction: faith gets to her feet and runs into the mansion. gwendolyn sees her coming. faith ducks into a hallway and keeps running. gwendolyn surmises that faith will appear at the other hallway leading from the opposite end of the room, and extends her arm in that direction.
gwendolyn: tauo freim!
translation: be free!
scene direction: another lightning bolt strikes the glove and is sent in the direction of the hallway just as faith comes running out of it. she dives behind the couch, avoiding the blast from the glove. thrilled with the power that is now hers, gwendolyn holds the glove up before her, staring at it with lustful desire in her eyes.
gwendolyn: there's nothing you can do to me now.
scene direction: outside buffy sifts through the broken glass, finds a larger shard, gets to her feet and runs into the mansion.
gwendolyn: i have the glove. with the glove comes the power.
buffy: i'm getting that.
scene direction: gwendolyn looks over at buffy in surprise. buffy throws the shard of glass end over end. it flies like a spinning blade at gwendolyn and slices cleanly through her upper arm, severing it and the glove from her body. with nothing to control it now, the power of the glove becomes erratic, and small bolts and sparks leap from it in random directions.
scene direction: another bolt of lightning strikes through the skylight, and not having a target this time, hits gwendolyn in the chest, with a few small tendrils going in through her eyes. she screams at the top of her lungs as her body begins to writhe in pain. everyone watches helplessly as she keeps screaming and the lightning bolts keep coming. buffy shuts her eyes to the sight. a moment later, with one final bright lightning strike, what's left of a one-armed gwendolyn vanishes in a bright flash of light and energy. a few small arcs of electricity are all that remain as the last of the energy dissipates, and the mansion is again in relative darkness. buffy opens her eyes. willow and angel get to their feet.
scene direction: outside xander gets up also and heads inside. faith stands up from behind the couch. all that is left in the center of the room are bits of glass and framework from the skylight, a cloud of smoke slowly rising upward and the glove of myhnegon with gwendolyn's severed arm still firmly in its grip. one by one the ten claws open up, releasing it.
scene change: cut to sunnydale high the next day. cut to the student lounge. willow and oz are sitting on one of the couches across the coffee table from xander and cordelia, who are sitting on the other.
cordelia: so there's no more glove thingy?
xander: no. little living flame, little mesquite, gone for good.
oz: sounds like we missed a lot of fun.
xander: then we're telling it wrong.
willow: what do you think buffy and angel are gonna do?
xander: boy, do i don't know.
scene direction: xander nods
scene direction: cordelia gives him a strange look.
willow: well, he saved me from a horrible flamey death. that sort of makes me like him again.
scene direction: willow smiles thinly
xander: well, as long as she and angel don't get pelvic, we'll be okay, i guess.
scene direction: cordelia doesn't like the way xander phrased that, and crosses her arms.
scene direction: buffy walks up the stairs to meet them. xander sits up straight.
buffy: what are you guys talking about?
oz: oddly enough, your boyfriend. again.
scene direction: buffy looks down sadly
buffy: he's not my boyfriend.
scene direction: buffy sits next to xander
buffy: really, truly, he's...
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i don't know.
scene direction: she looks over at xander and cordelia. they both look back.
scene direction: buffy hesitatingly
buffy: are we cool?
xander: yeah! just seeing the two of you kissing after everything that happened, i leaned toward the postal.
scene direction: xander pauses
xander: but i trust you.
cordelia: i don't. just for the record.
scene direction: buffy raises her eyebrows, not all that surprised. behind her giles clears his throat, and she turns to face him. he's leaning against the railing with a large bandage on his left temple.
buffy: let me guess: gwendolyn post: not a watcher.
giles: yes, she was.
scene direction: giles cautiously takes the steps
giles: she was, uh, kicked out by the council a couple of years ago for misuses of dark power. they swear there was a memo.
buffy: well, i better go.
scene direction: buffy to xander
buffy: little more damage control.
scene direction: she gets up and heads out of the lounge.
scene direction: willow sighs
willow: the whole angel thing is so weird.
scene direction: giles slowly sits next to xander
giles: yes, well, we'll have to see how that unfolds, won't we?
scene change: cut to faith's motel room. she's lying on the bed, flipping through a magazine and watching dragnet in black and white. a man opens his door to talk with the officers.
man: yes, sir?
friday: police officers. my name's friday, this is...
scene direction: there's a knock on faith's door.
man: how are you?
faith: come in.
scene direction: buffy opens the door, peeks in and then comes into the room.
buffy: hey.
man: called the police just a little while ago. talked to a man down there. i didn't get his name, though.
buffy: the place looks nice.
faith: yeah, it's real spartan.
friday: can you show us where they broke in, please?
buffy: how are you?
faith: five-by-five.
buffy: i'll interpret that as good.
scene direction: faith doesn't respond, but just continues paging through her magazine.
buffy: look, gwendolyn post, or whoever she may be, had us all fooled.
scene direction: even giles.
scene direction: faith without looking up
faith: yeah, well, you can't trust people. i should've learned that by now.
buffy: i realize this is gonna sound funny coming from someone that just spent a lot of time kicking your face... but you can trust me.
scene direction: faith looks up, amused
faith: is that right?
scene direction: faith tosses the magazine aside
buffy: i know i kept secrets, but i didn't have a choice. i'm on your side.
faith: *i'm* on my side,
scene direction: faith nods
faith: and that's enough.
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: not always.
scene direction: faith shrugs
faith: is that it?
buffy: yeah, i guess.
faith: alright. well, then, i'll see you.
scene direction: she averts her eyes and stares at the tv. buffy takes the hint and turns to go. faith shakes her head, having a second thought.
faith: uh, buffy?
scene direction: buffy faces her expectantly
buffy: yeah?
scene direction: faith reconsiders again for a long moment, and changes her mind again.
faith: nothing.
scene direction: buffy lowers her eyes, disappointed. slowly she turns back to the door, opens it and leaves.
scene direction: faith looks around her spartan room and inhales and exhales deeply. cut outside. buffy goes over to the stairs and pauses for a moment, staring sadly into space, and then starts down the steps. cut inside. the camera pulls back on faith alone in her bed, staring out of the window for a moment, then back at the tv 