scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: the sunnydale cemetery at night. the camera fades in on a gravestone-- andrew hoelich, 1981-1998--and slowly pans down to the ground in front of it. a bouquet of fresh flowers is there. a hand comes out of the freshly filled grave and claws for solid ground. slowly andrew pulls himself out of his grave, now a newly made vampire. he growls when his head clears the earth, and continues to climb out on his stomach. he crawls along the ground, pulling out his legs as the camera pulls back, and stops when he sees a pair of wide-spread legs standing before him. he looks up to see who it is.
willow: that's right, big boy.
scene change: cut to willow.
scene direction: willow smiles mischievously
willow: come and get it.
scene direction: andrew suddenly hops to his feet and roars at her. taken aback by this, willow takes a few quick steps backward. the vampire takes two steps toward her. xander grabs him by the collar of his suit and pulls him back away from willow. andrew loses his balance in the process.
xander: i got him! go!
scene direction: oz jumps out from behind a bush and starts to run toward them, but then hesitates a moment to get a stake from his jacket pocket.
xander: any time now . . .
scene direction: andrew has regained his balance, and using xander's grip to stabilize himself, kicks up with both legs and does a double pike snapping kick to oz's face. oz stumbles backward and falls. without pausing, andrew leaps up again and does a back tuck over xander's head. xander tries to rush him, but andrew uses his momentum to deflect him into willow. they both go crashing to the ground. willow moans, but quickly sits up to watch andrew run away.
willow: he's getting away! and . . . ow.
scene direction: oz scrambles to his feet and picks up his stake. he watches the demon running and holds his stake by the tip, preparing to throw it like a knife. andrew leaps over a rock and continues running. oz throws the stake. it whistles through the air as it flies end over end, and hits a gravestone, bouncing off of it with a loud thunk and flying wild.
scene direction: oz shaking his head
oz: that really never works.
scene direction: willow and xander get up, and oz turns to them.
oz: are you guys all right?
xander: first of all, what was with the acrobatics? how did that happen?
scene direction: oz looking in the direction that andrew went
oz: wasn't andy hoelich on the gymnastics team?
scene direction: xander gestures with his arm
xander: that's right, he was!
scene direction: xander shouting after andrew
xander: cheater!
scene direction: oz gives xander a brief look and then stares into the distance again looking for andrew.
scene direction: xander to willow
xander: okay, and the, uh, second problem i'm having . . .
scene direction: 'come and get it, big boy'?
willow: well . . .
scene direction: willow stammering
willow: w-well, the slayer always says a pun or-or a witty play on words, and i think it throws the vampires off, and, and it makes them *frightened* because i'm wisecracking. okay, i didn't really have a chance to work on that one, but *you* try it every time.
oz: uh, if i may suggest: 'this time it's personal.' i mean, there's a reason why it's a classic.
scene direction: xander steps away
xander: i've always been amazed with how buffy fought, but . . .
scene direction: xander picks up his bag
xander: in a way, i feel like we took her punning for granted.
scene direction: xander steps back
scene direction: willow gives xander a scolding look
willow: xander, past tense rule.
xander: oh, sorry. i just meant we in the past took it for granted and, uh . . . we won't when she gets back.
willow: do you think buffy knows school's starting tomorrow?
oz: tomorrow.
scene direction: oz willow looks at him
oz: right. big day.
scene direction: willow goes to oz
willow: oh, i'm gonna be busy a lot. but, but only till 3, and that's when you usually get up.
xander: i can't wait to see cordelia.
scene direction: xander pauses
xander: i can't believe i can't wait to see cordelia.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: i wonder what our first homework assignment's gonna be.
scene direction: xander puts his hands on his hips and gives her a look.
willow: hey, you're excited over cordelia, okay? we've all got issues.
oz: i guess we should pack it in.
xander: yeah.
scene direction: they all start to walk away from andrew's grave.
willow: wouldn't it be great if buffy just showed up tomorrow? like nothing happened?
xander: she can't just show up, she got kicked out.
willow: well, yeah, i-i know. i just wish . . . i wish we knew where she was.
scene change: cut to a los angeles beach. a wave crashes on the sand. in the far distance a pier stretches out into the water. buffy steps into view, walking barefoot across the sand. she stops and looks out over the ocean. she closes her eyes and raises her head to just feel the sun on her face and listen to the waves come in. the camera pans down from her face to her waist. a pair of hands reach around her and clasp in front, and she covers them with hers. the camera pans back up to her face. she looks back at angel leaning his head over her shoulder. she reaches up with her hand and brushes it against his cheek.
buffy: how did you find me here?
angel: if i was blind, i would see you.
scene direction: she lowers her hand to take his again at her waist and closes her eyes.
scene direction: she embraces his arms tightly to her.
buffy: stay with me.
angel: forever. that's the whole point. i'll never leave.
scene direction: angel whispering into her ear
angel: not even if you kill me.
scene direction: buffy's expression turns from contented to dismayed.
scene change: cut to buffy's tiny apartment in a run-down downtown los angeles neighborhood. she wakes from her dream and looks around sadly. slowly she gets up and goes over to the window overlooking the street below.
scene direction: the camera pans away from the window, past the sidewalk and into the street. a police siren gets louder as it nears, and an instant later an lapd squad car races across the intersection at the end of the block against the red light.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: behind the counter at a small, sleazy diner named helen's kitchen.
scene direction: the cook puts two burgers with fries up on the pick-up counter. a waitress walks past the counter to hang an order on the spinner. buffy walks behind her to pick up the two burgers. she has her hair in two short braids to keep it out of the way. her expression emotes a combination of sadness and boredom. she takes the two plates, walks them over to a nearby table and sets them down in front of two roughneck types. they both eye her lecherously. buffy takes out her order pad.
buffy: anything else?
roughneck: that'll do us, peaches.
scene direction: she tears off their bill and puts it on the table.
buffy: pay at the counter.
roughneck: sure you don't want me to work it off for you?
scene direction: the other roughneck laughs at that. buffy walks away, and as she goes he reaches out with his hand and slaps her on the behind. buffy stops in her tracks. the two men just chuckle. she turns her head slightly, but thinks better of doing anything about it. she walks up to another table where a young couple is sitting. they are too into each other to notice buffy.
buffy: you guys ready?
scene direction: rickie still looking at his girl
rickie: yeah. i think we're good. um . . .
scene direction: rickie looks at buffy's name tag
rickie: 'anne'.
scene direction: buffy glances at them briefly, then looks down at her pad to take their order.
buffy: what'll you have?
scene direction: rickie reaches into his pocket and pulls out a handful of change.
rickie: well, okay . . . what can we get with this?
scene direction: he dumps the change onto the table. it's mostly pennies, a few nickels and dimes, no quarters.
buffy: um . . .
scene direction: lily to rickie
lily: can we get cake?
scene direction: rickie to lily
rickie: don't be stupid. we gotta eat healthy. we can't have cake.
scene direction: rickie to buffy
rickie: can we get pie?
buffy: we've got a peach pie.
scene direction: buffy writes the order
buffy: i can't guarantee there's a peach in it.
scene direction: lily to rickie
lily: we shouldn't have blown all our money.
scene direction: rickie to lily
rickie: come on, it was worth it.
scene direction: lily smiles. rickie looks up at buffy as the two of them hold out their forearms.
rickie: hey, check this out.
scene direction: buffy looks at their arms as they hold them out together and sees they each have a tattoo of half of a heart with a ribbon across it. on their respective halves of the ribbon they have the other's name tattooed.
buffy: it's nice. it's nice and, uh, permanent.
scene direction: buffy smiles weakly
scene direction: rickie looking at lily
rickie: yeah, forever.
scene direction: rickie puts his arm around lily
rickie: i mean, that's the whole point.
scene direction: lily looks at him and smiles. buffy looks down sadly. a moment later she looks up at lily, and there's a spark of recognition in her face. lily looks up at buffy and thinks she also recognizes her.
lily: hey, do i know you?
scene direction: buffy looks away
buffy: i don't think so.
scene direction: lily looks harder
lily: really? where're you from?
scene direction: buffy avoids the issue
buffy: i'll get your pie.
scene direction: lily watches as buffy goes to the cash register. rickie distracts her, and they are in their own little world again. at the register buffy puts down the order. the other waitress looks at her.
buffy: i'm not feeling great.
scene direction: buffy unties her apron
buffy: do you think you can cover for me?
waitress: sure.
scene direction: waitress looks at the order
waitress: okay.
scene direction: buffy gives rickie and lily one last look and goes out of the diner.
scene change: cut to the sunnydale high school library. students are busy looking for books they will need during the semester. willow and giles walk out of the stacks on the mezzanine level. willow has several books in her arms.
giles: so, no joy at the cemetery?
scene direction: they come down the stairs.
willow: no, he got away. we still have some glitches in the system, like . . . vampires getting away. but i think we're improving.
scene direction: willow smiles
scene direction: they split up as giles heads through the door to go behind the check-out counter.
giles: for god's sake be careful.
scene direction: giles they meet at the counter
giles: i mean, uh, i appreciate your efforts to keep the vampire population down until buffy returns, but, uh . . . well, if anything should happen to you and . . . you should be killed, i should take it somewhat amiss.
scene direction: giles scans willow's books to check them out.
willow: you'd be cranky?
giles: entirely.
willow: well, we try not to get killed.
scene direction: willow the phone in giles' office rings
willow: that's part of our whole mission statement. 'don't get killed.' she takes the books and stacks them together again.
giles: good, good.
scene direction: giles taps on one of her books
giles: i think you're going to love that one.
scene direction: giles goes to get the phone
scene direction: willow picks the books up and starts out of the library. before she can take more than a few steps, cordelia comes up to her.
willow: hi!
cordelia: hey, willow.
scene direction: cordelia puts her bag on the counter
willow: how was your summer?
cordelia: oh, i can't believe you brought that up. las palmas was the nightmare resort. they order you around and make you have organized
scene direction: cordelia makes quotes with her fingers
cordelia: 'fun', and i used sarcastic quote marks.
scene direction: cordelia takes her bag and starts out
cordelia: plus the fact there are cockroaches in mexico big enough to own property. it was all about dread. how was your summer?
willow: oh, it was okay.
scene direction: they walk through the library doors and into the hall.
cordelia: is xander around?
willow: well, uh, yeah. somewhere.
scene direction: they stop in the hall.
cordelia: good. great. i haven't seen him yet.
scene direction: cordelia pulls her hair behind her ears
cordelia: do i look okay?
willow: oh, yeah!
scene direction: willow nods and smiles
scene direction: cordelia worried
cordelia: how's my hair?
willow: uh, it's good!
scene direction: willow smiles
cordelia: he didn't meet anybody over the summer, did he? no, who's he gonna meet in sunnydale, but monsters and stuff? but then again he's always been attracted to monsters.
scene direction: cordelia worried
cordelia: how's my hair?
willow: still good.
scene direction: she turns to leave and sees oz.
scene direction: willow smiles hugely
willow: hi!
scene direction: cordelia grabs her arm and turns her around to look at her.
cordelia: maybe he's forgotten me.
scene direction: cordelia lets go
cordelia: well, i'll just have to make him remember.
scene direction: cordelia smiles
cordelia: see ya.
scene direction: cordelia walks off
scene direction: willow turns back to oz
willow: you came to visit me.
scene direction: willow sees his books
willow: you came with books? are they books for me?
oz: well, actually, they're kind of for me.
willow: i don't get it.
oz: well, it's sort of a funny story.
scene direction: oz they walk
oz: you remember when i didn't graduate?
willow: well, i know you had a lot of incompletes, but that's what summer school was for.
oz: yeah. well, you remember when i didn't go?
scene direction: two students run past them, and the camera follows them down the hall past a teacher.
teacher: whoa. slow down, people.
scene direction: teacher they stop running
teacher: summer is over.
scene direction: be somber.
scene direction: willow and oz walk by as the teacher goes back into his classroom.
willow: but you never said anything. how am i supposed to react to this rather alarming news?
oz: well, actually, i was pretty much banking on you finding it cute.
willow: well, traditionally, you know, repeating a grade isn't exactly a turn-on.
scene direction: willow they stop by the lounge
willow: a-and you're practically a genius. you're mr. test scores. i-it's all a little weird.
oz: so the cute thing is out?
scene direction: xander rushes up to them.
xander: have you guys seen cordelia?
willow: yeah. she's around here somewhere.
xander: i don't want to come on too geeky, but, uh, okay, i'm psyched!
scene direction: xander flashes a big grin
xander: there's gonna be some heat, if you know what i mean, so you guys might want to duck and cover.
scene direction: xander willow sighs
xander: and i'm starting to be geeky.
scene direction: xander grins again
xander: okay, bye.
scene direction: xander he goes, but comes right back
xander: how's my-- willow:
scene direction: xander interrupts
xander: your hair is fine.
scene direction: xander big grin
xander: cool.
scene direction: xander darts away
scene direction: larry and another jock walk behind willow and oz, and the camera follows them into the lounge.
larry: this is our year, i'm telling you. best football season ever. i'm so in shape, i'm a rock.
scene direction: larry they stop by the vending machines
larry: it's all about egg whites. if we can focus, keep discipline, and not have quite as many mysterious deaths, sunnydale is gonna *rule*!
scene direction: willow and oz walk into the lounge on the other side of the tables.
willow: i'm trying to get to cute, really. but i'm still sorta stuck on 'strange'.
oz: well, i'd be willing to bargain down to 'eccentric' with an option on 'cool'.
scene direction: they walk past the raised area where the couches are. behind them xander and cordelia finally meet. the camera closes in on them.
xander: hey!
cordelia: hey.
xander: good summer?
cordelia: it was all right.
xander: cool!
scene direction: cordelia sounding disappointed
cordelia: yeah.
scene direction: they stand around looking uncertain for a moment.
xander: well, i'll see ya.
cordelia: yeah, whatever.
scene direction: he turns and goes down the steps. cordelia walks the other way toward the hall.
scene change: cut to buffy's apartment. she's sitting calmly on the edge of her bed in her nightshirt, holding a can of spaghetti-o's in her lap. the camera pans up from the can to her face. she just stares blankly into the room, breathing calmly.
scene change: cut to the street in front of helen's kitchen. buffy walks along the street. a homeless man is sitting on the curb. ken, the local shelter operator, approaches the man and crouches down beside him, holding out one of his leaflets.
ken: hey, how are you? can i talk to you for a moment? i have something you might be interested in.
scene direction: buffy continues walking and passes a store with a recessed entryway. a homeless woman is cowering there.
homeless woman: i'm no one.
scene direction: buffy looks at the woman.
homeless woman: i'm no one.
scene direction: buffy looks away and hides her face from the woman by pulling her hair behind her ear. her expression becomes very sad.
homeless woman: i'm no one.
scene change: cut to the library. giles is on the phone in his office.
giles: yes? thank you, thank you.
scene direction: he hangs up, puts the phone down, grabs his coat and quickly comes out of the office.
giles: i have a lead.
scene direction: willow and xander look up from doing their homework at the table.
giles: a friend in oakland has a-a-a sketchy report of a . . .
scene direction: giles grabs his overcoat
giles: young girl fending off a group of vampires . . .
scene direction: giles grabs his bag
scene direction: about a week ago. (looks at his watch) there's a plane out in about an hour.
scene direction: willow and xander exchange a look.
xander: and what makes this different from the last nine leads?
giles: well, i believe there's a meal on this flight.
xander: look, i don't mean to poop the party here, it's just, you get your hopes all up, and then it's just a big fat raspberry, and i feel bad.
willow: but it's good that you're looking, though. you shouldn't give up.
xander: oh, yeah. definitely.
giles: yes, one must try. well, i-i-i should go.
scene direction: giles rushes out
willow: you don't think maybe he'll find her?
xander: i think he'll find her when she wants to be found.
scene direction: they go back to doing their homework.
scene change: cut to a street in l.a. at night. buffy slowly walks along to her apartment. behind her, lily follows her.
lily: anne?
scene direction: buffy doesn't respond.
scene direction: lily louder
lily: anne?
scene direction: still no response from buffy.
lily: buffy?
scene direction: buffy stops in her tracks. lily catches up.
lily: don't be mad. i won't turn you in or nothing. i guess you don't recognize me.
scene direction: buffy thinks for a moment
buffy: lily?
lily: i mean from before. i was calling myself chantarelle then. i used to . . .
scene direction: lily sighs
lily: well, i was in this cult that worshipped vampires. so lame, i know.
buffy: yeah . . . i, uh, i remember.
lily: but . . . you kinda saved us. i never thanked you or anything.
buffy: did you tell anyone who i was?
lily: oh, no! not-not even rickie. i mean, i was so surprised to see you here, waiting tables . . . but i wouldn't tell. i know how it is when you gotta get lost.
scene direction: they start to walk again.
buffy: do you, uh, do you live nearby?
lily: well, there's a couple of places. uh, they're abandoned, and a lot of people stay there.
scene direction: lily pauses
lily: so how come you came up with anne?
buffy: it's my middle name.
lily: lily's from a song. rickie picked it. i'm always changing anyway.
scene direction: chantarelle was part of my exotic phase.
buffy: it's nice. it's a . . .it's a mushroom.
lily: it is? that's really embarrassing.
buffy: um, well, i-it's an exotic mushroom, if that's any comfort.
lily: well, before that, i was following this loser preacher and calling myself "sister sunshine." buffy: what do they call you at home?
scene direction: lily looks away and doesn't respond.
buffy: i like lily.
lily: it's cool for now. hey, do you have any money?
scene direction: they stop, and buffy gives her a surprised look.
lily: i didn't mean that like-- well, i just mean . . . i know this guy, he's gonna have this kinda rave thing in his basement. we could go. i mean, i could show you if you had-- 'cause i'm broke.
buffy: i-i don't think so. i just kind of . . . i want to be alone.
lily: i didn't mean to bug you.
buffy: no! i-i didn't, i didn't mean that, it's just . . . well, a-a lot of people like that, it's, it's too much.
scene direction: lily crosses her arms and looks very disappointed. buffy looks down and starts to dig through her purse.
buffy: i-i do have the money, though, so, why don't you and rickie go, and then maybe i could meet you some other time-- lily raises her hands and waves off the offer.
lily: no. it's okay, it's okay. forget about it. just-- a homeless man rudely pushes his way between them. the two girls both stare after him.
lily: that's not very polite.
scene direction: the man turns around and looks blankly back at them.
buffy: are you okay?
homeless man: i'm no one.
scene direction: he turns back around and walks into the traffic on the street. buffy's eyes widen with concern. the man stops in the middle of a lane in front of an oncoming pickup truck and faces it, arms stretched wide. buffy drops her bag and rushes into the street. the pickup driver honks his horn and slams on the brakes. the truck starts to skid. buffy pushes the man out of the way in time to save him, but not in time to avoid getting hit herself. she gets hit hard in the legs by the bumper. her body snaps down hard onto the hood of the truck and she slides into the windshield.
scene direction: she bounces back and slides off of the hood as the truck screeches to a halt. she hits the pavement, flips over backward and rolls to a stop in the middle of the street.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: the street. the driver quickly gets out of the pickup cab and runs over to buffy lying in the street, but lily reaches her first. buffy is on her hands and knees trying to get up. people from all around come rushing into the street.
lily: are you okay?
driver: jeez, i didn't see you.
scene direction: he takes her by the arms and helps her up.
lily: oh . . . maybe, maybe you shouldn't move.
driver: maybe you should lie down.
scene direction: buffy looks around nervously at all of the people gathering.
buffy: no, i'm fine.
driver: somebody call an ambulance!
scene direction: buffy holds up her hands to fend of everyone's help.
buffy: no! i'm okay, i just . . . i need to go.
scene direction: she runs off, apparently not the least bit hurt.
scene change: cut to further down the street. buffy is walking at a brisk pace as she goes around a corner. there she bumps into ken and knocks all of his leaflets onto the sidewalk.
ken: whoa!
scene direction: ken sees his leaflets
ken: oh . . .
scene direction: they both crouch down to pick up the papers.
ken: where are you running to?
buffy: sorry.
ken: maybe i should ask, where are you running from?
scene direction: they've finished gathering up his leaflets and stand back up. ken takes a good look at buffy.
ken: you're pretty new around here. uh, you've got the 'look', though.
buffy: the 'look'?
ken: like you had to grow up way too fast. what's your name?
buffy: anne.
scene direction: buffy pushes past him to go
ken: hey, um, i'm ken. here, go ahead, take one of these.
scene direction: he holds out a leaflet, and buffy looks at it. it reads "come home to family home", and has a drawing of a house and a silhouette of a man reaching out to hug a child.
ken: don't be shy about stopping by. i mean, i guess you're not starving, but . . . we're not just interested in feeding the body. you might find something you're missing.
scene direction: buffy looks up at him
buffy: i'm alright.
scene direction: ken gives her a look of disbelief
ken: then why are you here?
scene direction: ken buffy looks away
ken: this is not a good place for a kid to be. you get old fast here.
scene direction: ken buffy looks up at him knowingly
ken: the thing that drains the life out of them is despair. i mean, kids come here, and they got nothing to go home to, and . . . this ends up being the last stop for a lot of them.
scene direction: ken buffy looks down the street
ken: shouldn't have to be that way.
scene direction: "back to freedom" by bellylove starts playing as several shots of homeless people are shown.
lyrics: ooo-ooo-ooo / on my way to freedom a woman alone in the street, a boy and girl huddling together on the curb, a young boy begging from a businessman who rejects him as he walks by, a woman with a dirty face looking into the camera.
lyrics: i ask myself cut to the bronze. bellylove is on stage performing their ballad.
lyrics: why did i come again? / to find my own way to freedom the camera pans from above down to the singer, then over to the guitar player.
lyrics: and the change is gonna come / i'm gonna find my way / find my way / find my way back to freedom the camera pans around behind the singer, showing the people in the club. it's not a busy night. xander is lounging on a couch off to the side. willow is sitting in the loveseat set at a right angle to the couch.
lyrics: i'm gonna find my way / find my way / find my way / find my way back to freedom the camera cuts closer to xander and willow.
xander: boy, i'm glad we showed up for "depressing night." willow: i wonder what she's doing right now.
xander: oh, i know what she's doing. gabbing to all of her friends about her passionate affair with pedro the cabana boy, laughing about me, thinking how she still might have feelings about me.
scene direction: he glances over at willow and sees her sadly raise her eyebrows at him.
xander: oh, it's possible you were talking about buffy.
willow: it's possible. the bronze just never seems the same without her.
scene direction: oz arrives, hands xander a drink and sits down next to willow.
xander: yeah, and the slaying isn't getting any easier, either.
oz: i don't know. i think we're kinda getting a rhythm down.
xander: we're losing half the vamps.
oz: yeah, but . . . rhythmically.
willow: we just need to work on our timing, i think.
scene direction: xander looks up
xander: no, i know what we need.
oz: a vampire slayer?
xander: next best thing.
scene direction: willow follows his gaze and sees cordelia coming into the bronze with a few friends.
lyrics: ooo-ooo / my own way to freedom xander: bait.
scene change: cut to the summers house. cut inside. joyce is writing out a few bills.
scene direction: she hears a knocking at the door, and looks up. she goes over to the door and answers it. she is surprised at who she sees standing there.
joyce: uh, hello.
giles: hello. um, may i . . .
scene direction: giles gestures inside
joyce: oh, uh, of course.
scene direction: joyce waves him in
joyce: come on in.
giles: thank you.
scene direction: giles slowly walks into the living room
giles: i've, uh, just come back from oakland. a friend of mine called with a lead. stories about someone fighting vampires.
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses
giles: it, uh, didn't pan out, i'm afraid.
scene direction: giles starts to clean them
scene direction: joyce sighs
joyce: no buffy.
giles: no vampires. bunch of school kids in heavy mascara listening to extremely silly music.
joyce: well, thank you for going.
scene direction: joyce steps into the living room and crosses her arms
joyce: i can hardly, uh . . .
scene direction: joyce exhales and smiles weakly
joyce: i can hardly leave the house. i'm just afraid she'll call and she'll need my help.
scene direction: giles puts his glasses back on
giles: buffy is the most capable child i've ever known. i mean, she may be confused, u-unhappy, but i, uh, honestly believe she's in no danger.
scene direction: joyce lowers her arms
joyce: i just wish i could talk to her. the last thing we did was fight.
scene direction: joyce fidgets with her hands
giles: joyce, you mustn't blame yourself for her leaving.
scene direction: joyce nods
joyce: i don't.
scene direction: joyce takes a breath
joyce: i blame you.
scene direction: joyce exhales
scene direction: giles is taken aback.
joyce: you've been this huge influence on her, guiding her. you had this whole relationship with her behind my back. i feel like you've taken her away from me.
scene direction: giles is speechless for a moment while he considers his answer.
giles: i didn't make buffy who she is.
joyce: and who exactly is she?
scene direction: giles just looks at her.
scene change: cut to helen's kitchen. buffy is filling the sugar dispensers at the counter. lily comes in and walks up to her.
lily: buff--um, anne? can i talk to you?
scene direction: buffy glances up at her, but doesn't stop her work.
buffy: look, this really isn't a good time. can it wait?
lily: rickie's gone. i haven't seen him for more than a day. i--he's never left for that long. i think something's . . . happened. maybe something's happened.
buffy: well, did you call the police?
scene direction: lily sighs
lily: rickie skipped out on his parole. uh, they would just cause more trouble.
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: i don't know, did you, did you ask around?
lily: can you help me?
buffy: uh, i-i can't.
scene direction: buffy walks away
scene direction: lily follows
lily: but . . . but that's who you are and stuff, right? i mean, you help people, and, you know-- buffy: i can't get into this. i'm sorry, lily.
lily: you, you know how to do stuff.
buffy: i don't.
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: not anymore.
lily: but . . .
scene direction: lily whining
lily: i don't know what to do.
scene change: cut to the blood bank. lily and buffy come in.
lily: we gave blood lots of times 'cause you get a few bucks. and they have cookies!
buffy: you're a fan of the sugar rush?
scene direction: lily smiles
lily: it's nice.
nurse: hi. you here to donate blood?
buffy: uh, we're looking for a friend.
lily: rickie t.? we come in sometimes.
nurse: rickie, sure. uh, he's not here.
buffy: well, do you know if he's been in the last day or so?
nurse: well, let me check the sheet.
scene direction: man off camera
man: ow!
scene direction: buffy looks squeamish as she looks over and sees him being stuck with a needle.
buffy: this'll probably go faster if we split up.
scene direction: lily nods in agreement
lily: can i come with you?
buffy: okay, where did i lose you on the whole "splitting up" thing?
scene direction: lily smiles
lily: oh. sorry.
buffy: i was thinking we could check out some of your hangouts and, um, i guess, meet later at my place.
lily: okay.
nurse: sorry, guys. he hasn't been here.
buffy: thanks.
nurse: i'll tell him you were looking.
buffy: great.
scene direction: they leave the blood bank. the nurse loses her friendly demeanor as she watches them go. she swallows and begins to look around nervously.
scene change: cut to a street at night. cut to an abandoned building. a homeless man stirs from his sleep as he hears buffy come in, but goes back to sleep when he sees it's not the cops. buffy makes her way through the building, being careful not to step on anyone. some of them watch her as she goes by. she walks slowly along a dark hall and turns a corner. she is startled by a man with his arms full walking the other way behind her. she continues along and soon notices an old man lying on the floor, dead. the same old man that buffy earlier saved from the truck. next to his head is an empty bottle of drain cleaner, an apparent suicide. buffy kneels next to him and feels for a pulse. nothing. she puts his arm down and sees that there's a tattoo of half a heart on his forearm with a banner across the heart and the name lily tattooed on it.
scene direction: buffy looks at the old man, confused.
buffy: rickie?
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: buffy's apartment. lily is there waiting for her to return. she finds buffy's stuffed duck and picks it up to stroke it. buffy opens the door, comes in and closes it behind her. lily puts the duck down and steps closer to buffy.
lily: did you find rickie? i thought of--well, he likes to go to this movie house, you can get in around the back-- buffy:
scene direction: lily interrupting
lily: lily . . . i think he's dead.
scene direction: lily very sad and lost
lily: but . . . he takes care of me.
buffy: i'm sorry.
lily: we're gonna get a place. his cousin can get him a job at the car wash.
buffy: lily, there's
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: there's something else.
scene direction: buffy sits on the bed
buffy: the, the person that i found . . . was old. he-he looked about eighty.
lily: well, that's not rickie!
buffy: i'm sure it was. i, i don't know how, but . . . it was like something drained the life out of him.
lily: do you mean like a vampire?
buffy: no. a vampire couldn't accelerate the aging process. maybe it was something in his blood.
scene direction: buffy has a thought
buffy: when was the last time you guys gave blood together?
lily: i don't understand. maybe it's not rickie, okay?
scene direction: buffy stands up
buffy: lily, this is something you're just gonna have to deal with.
scene direction: lily flustered
lily: but he didn't do anything wrong! why would this happen to him?
buffy: that's *not* the point.
scene direction: buffy lily calms a bit
buffy: these things happen all the time. you can't just . . . close your eyes and hope that they're gonna go away.
lily: is it 'cause of you?
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: what?
lily: you know about . . . monsters and stuff. you could have brought this with you.
scene direction: buffy very annoyed
buffy: i didn't bring anything with me. and i didn't ask for you to come to me with your problems. i just wanted to be left alone. if you can't deal, then *don't* lay it off on me!
scene direction: lily can't take it. she holds up her hands to deny what she's hearing and walks out of the apartment. buffy sighs, regretting raising her voice to lily.
scene change: cut to the street. lily stops walking and leans against the iron gates pulled across a storefront. ken comes up behind her.
ken: are you okay?
scene direction: lily shakes her head, barely able to keep from crying.
ken: hey, it's okay. maybe i can help.
scene direction: lily sniffles
lily: you can't.
scene direction: lily breathes deeply
ken: look, i know you all think i'm a big square handing out leaflets about hope. but hope is a real thing, just like despair. and hope can fill up a part of you that's missing.
lily: but rickie . . .
ken: rickie? say, are you lily?
scene direction: ken smiles
ken: right! right, he was talking about you.
scene direction: lily faces him
lily: you've seen rickie?
ken: oh, sure! rickie's with us now.
lily: she said he was dead.
ken: well, someone's sure handed you a tall tale. rickie's no more dead than i am. why don't you come to family home? we'll get you taken care of.
scene direction: lily considers for a moment. ken smiles at her, and she nods in agreement. he takes her by the arm and leads her away.
scene change: cut to the blood bank. a shadow appears on the other side of the frosted glass of the door. the camera pans down to the doorknob being jiggled.
scene change: suddenly it gets ripped out of the door. cut to a filing cabinet. buffy is looking through it to find rickie's records. she grabs it and a few others, closes the cabinet and takes the folders over to a desk. she turns on a lamp and begins to go through them. first she pulls out rickie's and opens it. she scans his latest donation form. it looks normal, except for the word "candidate" in the comments box.
buffy: candidate for what?
scene direction: behind her the nurse quietly walks in. buffy opens another record and sees "candidate" again.
nurse: what are you doing?
buffy: breaking into your office and going through your private files.
scene direction: buffy looks at another file
buffy: candidate for what?
nurse: i'm calling the police.
scene direction: she steps toward buffy to get to the phone. buffy reaches over to the phone and yanks it off of the wall. it falls to the desk with its wires torn.
buffy: now, you've got a whole bunch of candidates here. i wonder if any of them are missing like rickie.
scene direction: buffy faces the nurse
buffy: gosh, i bet they are.
nurse: you're getting yourself in a lot of trouble.
buffy: i don't want any trouble. i just want to be alone and quiet in a room with a chair and a fireplace and a tea cozy. i don't even know what a tea cozy is, but i want one. instead, i keep getting trouble, which i am more than willing to share.
scene direction: buffy the nurse looks at her nervously
buffy: what are you doing with these kids?
nurse: nothing. i just . . . i give him the names of the healthy ones.
buffy: give them to who?
scene change: cut to family home. ken looks at lily, who is wearing only a simple long tunic.
ken: well, don't you look nice?
lily: i guess.
ken: well, you don't want to wear your own outfit to the cleansing.
scene direction: it'll get soaked.
lily: a cleansing is like a baptism? right?
ken: not quite the same.
scene direction: indicates the way. she follows him.
lily: will i see rickie after?
ken: oh, of course. he's waiting for you. he's very excited.
scene change: cut to the sunnydale cemetery. xander, cordelia, willow and oz walk along a pathway. oz is twirling a stake.
cordelia: why do i have to be bait? i'm always bait. why can't willow be bait?
xander: he's already seen willow. and could you complain louder so that all the vampires leave?
oz: i think this is a good spot.
scene direction: they all stop and look around.
oz: is everybody packin'?
scene direction: willow and xander each pull out a stake. willow also has a cross.
oz: let's do it.
scene direction: willow, oz and xander split up and look for places to hide, leaving cordelia alone out in the open. cordelia is not liking this, and she quickly makes tracks after xander.
cordelia: i'm doing this for buffy's sake. this has nothing to do with you.
xander: yeah, like i needed that cleared up.
scene direction: xander finds a hiding place
xander: go away. this is my hiding spot.
cordelia: where do i hide?
xander: you don't hide. you're bait. go act baity.
cordelia: what's the plan?
xander: the vampire attacks you.
cordelia: and then what?
xander: the vampire kills you. we watch, we rejoice.
scene direction: willow overhears from her hiding place and sighs.
cordelia: everything's a joke with you.
xander: no, just our relationship.
cordelia: what relationship?
scene direction: willow looks down at her stake, contemplating using it on them. andrew appears behind her and smiles evilly.
xander: oh, that's right, i forgot. we actually want to bury that piece of the past, don't we?
scene direction: andrew begins to sneak up on willow.
scene change: cut to family home. the camera shows a small rectangular pool of what looks like black tar, and pans up from it to ken and lily walking into the room.
ken: we come to this station to wash away the past. go ahead, kneel.
scene direction: he indicates the edge of the pool, and lily kneels down. ken squats next to her.
ken: we let the water run over the sin and the pain and the uncertainty.
lily: it looks kinda . . . dirty.
scene direction: ken smiles
ken: yeah.
scene change: cut to the front door of family home. a man comes up to the door where another man is already listening to buffy talk.
buffy: you know, i just . . . i woke up, and i looked in the mirror, and i thought, "hey, what's with all the sin? i need to change. i'm . . . i'm dirty. i'm, i'm bad with the . . . sex and the envy and that, that loud music us kids listen to nowadays. w--"
scene direction: buffy sees that the guy isn't buying it
buffy: oh, i just suck at undercover. where's ken?
scene direction: the man tries to slam the door closed, but she kicks it open and it slams into his face instead. she marches in.
scene change: cut to ken and lily. she reaches down to the black water in the pool.
scene direction: for a moment she hesitates, but then puts her hand in. the liquid is thick and pitch-black, and her hand disappears in it. buffy swings open the door, banging it loudly into the wall. ken looks at her and stands up.
ken: this is a private moment. if you could just-- buffy: how do you make 'em old, ken? do you feed on youth? what's the deal?
ken: do you really wanna know?
scene direction: lily looks back
lily: what's going on?
scene direction: buffy is surprised to see lily there. suddenly something grabs lily. she screams as she is pulled into the pool and disappears into the black slime. buffy runs to help, but ken grabs her and chokes her with his arm around her neck. buffy grabs his arm and tries to snap her body back to make him release her, but instead they just both fall into the pool as well.
scene change: cut to a dimly lit passageway. buffy and ken fall out of a black pool in the ceiling. buffy briefly looks up at the pool, then looks around to see where she is. she sees lily leaning against the wall holding her head.
buffy: lily.
scene direction: she rolls over onto her hands and knees and quickly crawls over to lily.
scene direction: ken is faring worse, apparently hurt in the fall.
scene direction: lily in pain
lily: oh . . .
scene direction: buffy looks up at the pool in the ceiling. the waves from her fall through it are beginning to dissipate.
ken: oh, my face!
scene direction: buffy looks over at ken.
ken: ow! my face!
scene direction: he turns toward them and begins to pull his face and his hair off.
ken: do you have any idea how hard it is to glue that thing on?!
scene direction: beneath his mask ken's face is red and his head is bald. there appear to be pieces of skin missing from his forehead, revealing the even redder flesh beneath. lily begins to panic. buffy starts to get to her feet and tries to pull lily up with her. ken stands up.
scene direction: ken yells
ken: guards!
scene direction: buffy takes lily's hand and begins to run, pulling her along. two guards show up. their faces are even more mangled and raw-looking than ken's.
scene direction: one of the guards hands ken a club. they begin to pursue the girls.
scene direction: buffy and lily run through a maze of halls and come out on a ledge that overlooks what looks like a large iron works. there are huge vats of molten metal, sparks are flying through the air from one side, and it is hot and smoky. buffy looks closer, and in the shadows sees people being used as slave labor, kept in line by more guards with whips. the camera pans through the place showing zombie-like humans pounding the metal on anvils, pushing wheelbarrows from place to place and swinging sledgehammers. some of them cough hard as they work. the guards watch and crack their whips every so often. ken comes up behind lily as she takes in the scene.
ken: welcome to my world. i hope you like it.
scene direction: buffy and lily look back at him. he hits buffy hard in the face with his club, knocking her out.
scene direction: ken to lily
ken: you're never leaving.
scene direction: he smiles and licks his lips.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the sunnydale cemetery. cordelia and xander are still arguing.
xander: let me just ask you one thing: how long did it take you to forget me? were you still taxiing down the runway, or was it actually in the cab?
cordelia: oh, yeah, mr. faithful? you probably met up with some hot little inca mummy girl. yeah! i heard about her.
scene direction: xander raises his finger at her and is about to respond when they hear willow get tackled to the ground and scream.
willow: help!
scene direction: their attention is immediately diverted to willow, and they begin to run to her aid. oz is quicker and beats them there. he jumps over andrew and grabs him on the way, using his momentum to pull andrew off of willow and then throw him aside. andrew and willow both quickly get to their feet. oz holds up his stake, ready to attack andrew. willow runs away.
scene direction: oz lunges at andrew, but he just diverts oz to the side and sends him rolling to the ground. next xander comes at andrew, stake held ready, but andrew grabs his staking arm by the wrist with one hand and his shoulder with the other, and they begin to struggle. cordelia watches them struggle, worried.
cordelia: xander!
scene direction: she decides to join the fight, and attacks andrew from behind, pushing him and xander down to the ground. they end up with andrew sandwiched between xander on the bottom and cordelia on the top. with cordelia's weight on top of him and xander's leverage against the ground, andrew can't hold back the stake any longer, and it plunges into his chest. he explodes into ashes between them, and cordelia falls down on top of xander. the two of them look at each other for an instant, then grab each other and start kissing passionately.
scene change: cut to ken's world. buffy is lying on the floor in a cell. lily is sitting on the floor behind her leaning against a pillar. buffy regains consciousness, rolls onto her side and feels her head where ken hit her.
scene direction: no blood, but she is still a bit dazed.
buffy: oh. unh . . .
scene direction: buffy slowly sits up
buffy: lily?
lily: i always knew i would come here . . . sooner or later. i knew i belonged here.
scene direction: buffy looks around
buffy: where?
lily: hell.
scene direction: buffy turns her head toward lily
buffy: this isn't hell.
scene direction: ken appears at the bars
ken: isn't it?
scene direction: buffy spins her head around to look at ken, but quickly regrets moving it so fast.
scene direction: buffy in pain
buffy: unh . . .
scene direction: buffy rubs her forehead
ken: what is hell but the total absence of hope? the substance, the tactile proof of despair. you're right, lily. this is where you've been heading all your life. just like rickie.
lily: rickie?
ken: he forgot you. well, it took him a long time. he remembered your name years after he'd forgotten his own. but, in the end-- lily: years? but-- ken: oh. uh, interesting thing: time moves more quickly here than in your reality. a hundred long years will pass here. on earth, it's just a day.
buffy: so you just work us till we're too old and spit us back out.
ken: that's the plan. see, lily, you'll die of old age before anyone wonders where you went. not that anyone will, that's why we chose you.
buffy: you didn't choose me.
ken: no. but . . . i know you . . . *anne*. so afraid. so pathetically determined to run away from whatever it is you used to be.
scene direction: ken buffy looks away
ken: to disappear. congratulations.
scene direction: ken buffy looks at him again
ken: you got your wish.
scene change: cut to a personnel elevator. the huge steel door splits open, the upper half rising, the lower half sinking. a group of young slaves including buffy and lily is herded out. buffy trips and falls to the floor. the other slaves stop walking. a guard starts to explain things to the new recruits as buffy slowly gets back to her feet.
guard: you work, and you live. that is all.
scene direction: the guard has even less skin on his head than ken. he's wearing a hood that looks like it's made of human skin sewn together. his chin and cheeks are exposed flesh and muscle, and he has no lips covering his teeth. buffy is standing again, holding her head in pain.
guard: you do not complain or laugh or do anything besides work. whatever you thought, whatever you were, does not matter. you are no one now. you mean nothing.
scene direction: the guard walks to one end of the group and faces the boy standing there. behind them the elevator doors close with a slam.
guard: who are you?
scene direction: aaron afraid
aaron: aaron.
scene direction: the guard whales hard on him with his club, and the boy grunts in pain and falls to the floor unconscious. buffy immediately sobers, and stares intensely ahead. the guard advances to lily.
guard: who are you?
scene direction: lily whimpers
lily: no one.
scene direction: the guard continues to the next person.
guard: who are you?
scene direction: boy#2 fearfully
boy#2: no one.
scene direction: the guard reaches buffy.
guard: who are you?
scene direction: she looks up at him for a moment, and then smiles.
scene direction: buffy friendly
buffy: i'm buffy. the vampire slayer. and you are?
scene direction: the guard is incensed at her insubordination, and roars as he wields back his club to strike her. he swings at buffy, but she sidesteps him and grabs his arm as he bends over from his follow-through. buffy slams her other forearm down on the guard's, breaking it. he falls to the floor in pain. she picks up his club and swings it at another guard, striking him in the head. she swings again the opposite way at a third guard, hitting him in the gut. they both fall unconscious. buffy looks over at the group of would-be slaves.
buffy: anyone who's not having fun here, follow me.
scene direction: she starts to run, and the group follows her.
scene change: cut to a shot of the main iron works from above. the vats of molten metal glow brightly. there are sparks flying everywhere. cut to the slaves working below. the camera pans up to a ledge where two guards are watching them work. cut to a guard walking down a metal staircase. buffy and the small group are hiding beneath it.
scene direction: buffy looking up at the guards
buffy: there's no way we can get back up there without meeting new people.
scene direction: buffy looks at lily
buffy: okay. lily, when those guards leave--and they will leave--i want you to take these people and get them up there, okay? fast and quiet.
lily: you're leaving me? but-- buffy: lily . . . you can handle this. 'cause i say so.
scene direction: suddenly a siren begins to wail loudly.
buffy: we've gone public. okay, quick, get them up. go! quiet!
scene direction: lily begins to lead them away, but comes back.
lily: i'm sorry i said this was your fault before.
buffy: lily, this can wait.
lily: well, in case we die-- buffy: go! go!
scene direction: lily runs off to lead the group out. buffy sees two guards coming for them and leads them away at a run. she winds around through the slaves still blindly working away.
guard: get out of the way!
scene direction: the guards are big and bulky compared to her small figure darting through the maze, but they manage to keep up.
guard: come on, get out of the way!
scene direction: she sees a pole jutting out of the floor and grabs onto it, swings around once and knocks one of the guards out with an aerial side kick. she lets go of the pole and begins to run again. she reaches a platform, shoulder rolls onto it and rises to a standing position. her pursuer jumps up onto the stage and tries a backhand swing at her with his sledgehammer, but she ducks and blocks his second swing. the guard kicks up with his knee and gets buffy in the stomach, stunning her. he punches her, making her fall to the floor. he takes a swing at buffy's head, but she clamps her hands around the hammer's handle and yanks him up and over her. he slams down hard onto his shoulder and rolls off of the platform. buffy still has his hammer and quickly gets to her feet. the two other guards on the ledge leave their post and begin to approach her.
scene change: cut to lily leading the group to a set of stairs. she ushers them up.
lily: c'mon, c'mon, everybody go! go!
scene direction: one after the other they quickly climb the stairs. lily brings up the rear.
scene direction: on the platform buffy continues to fight another guard. she quickly hits him in the head with a full spinning out-to-in crescent kick. he takes the blow hard and falls off of the platform. still another guard takes a swing at buffy's legs with his sledgehammer, but she jumps high to avoid the swing. buffy swings her hammer into the guard's face, knocking him down. as he tries to get up, buffy knocks him down again with a snapping roundhouse kick to his arm, kicking his hammer away in the process. the guard gets to his feet. buffy swings her hammer in an uppercut, striking him in the jaw and sending him flying off of the platform in a backflip.
scene direction: yet another guard jumps up onto the platform and tackles buffy, struggling to get the hammer out of her hands.
scene change: cut to a ledge. ken and two more guards come out to see what's going on.
scene direction: ken can't believe what he is seeing.
scene direction: cut below. buffy does a roundhouse kick to the guard's face, and he stumbles backwards. another guard comes up to the edge of the platform holding a battle-ax with a curved blade. he looks at the fighting for a moment, then moves to jump up onto the platform.
scene change: cut to ken on the ledge.
ken: humans don't fight back.
scene direction: cut below. the guard on the platform tries to pound buffy's head with his club, but she holds her hammer high, blocking his attack and making him drop his weapon.
scene direction: ken enraged
ken: humans don't fight back!
scene direction: buffy swings down with her hands, carrying the guard's hands as well.
scene direction: she grabs him by the neck, spins around once and throws him through the air. he hits a steel beam and slumps to the ground. the guard with the battle-ax is up on the platform now and takes a wide swing with it at buffy, but she leans aside and he misses.
ken: that's how this works!
scene direction: buffy manages to duck the guard's next swing, avoiding decapitation. he swings again from above, but she blocks his attack with her hammer, and the head of the ax embeds itself in the handle. buffy performs a front snap kick that dislodges the ax and knocks the weapon out of the guard's hands and spinning up into the air. she kneels down and knocks his legs out from under him with her hammer. while she's crouched, she looks up at the battle-ax as it falls and catches the airborne weapon. she gets to her feet, as does her assailant. buffy does another roundhouse kick to his face, and he goes flying off of the platform.
scene direction: ken to the guards with him
ken: get down there!
scene direction: the two guards run to obey. on the platform the camera pans in close to buffy as she looks around, temporarily without an opponent. suddenly a guard jumps up. buffy swings a backhand punch at his head, but he blocks it and shoves her arm out of the way. he punches her with a backhand fist. she stumbles a little but recovers in time to duck his second swing at her head. she does a side kick to his rear that sends him off of the platform. two more guards try to climb onto the platform. buffy crouches and quickly throws her battle-ax spinning end over end at one of them. it slices deeply into his chest, and the power behind her throw sends him falling off of the platform. the other guard tries a wide swing, but buffy blocks it, grabs onto his arm and sends him somersaulting through the air and off of the platform. another guard attacks. buffy smashes her elbow into his nose and follows it up with a full spin and a backhand punch to the head. he falls down awkwardly.
scene direction: another one leaps up and catches buffy unaware with a high punch to her face. she stumbles backwards but doesn't fall. two more guards join him and try to surround her. buffy snap kicks one in the face and side kicks another. buffy does a full spinning hook kick to the third, smacking him soundly in the skull.
scene change: cut to the ledge. ken is disgusted with what he sees and goes back through the door.
scene direction: cut below. one of the guards punches buffy hard in the face, and she staggers. he grabs her by the neck while she's trying to regain her balance and yanks her head up fast and hard. he holds her while two other guards punch her in the stomach.
scene change: cut to a dimly lit corridor. the group of slaves runs down it, trailed by lily. they round a corner. as lily is about to follow them, ken grabs her from behind, pulls out a large knife and holds it to her neck. she doesn't struggle as he leads her off back to the ledge.
scene change: cut to the platform. the guards keep on punching buffy. finally she is able to retaliate and swings an arm out, backhand punching two of them and high punching the third, knocking him down. she swings her arm out in a wide arc and hits the first two with the one blow, knocking them down as well. a fourth guard roundhouse kicks her in the stomach, and she steps back to regain her balance. he latches onto her arm and tries to throw her, but buffy reverses the move and manages to throw him off of the platform instead. a guard dives headfirst for buffy's legs. she leaps up and pulls her legs up into a tuck jump over him. he dives right underneath her. buffy runs and jumps off of the platform, grabbing a pole. it bends under her weight, and she rides it down to the floor below. she begins to run, and the chase is on again. she doesn't get very far when she looks up and sees ken coming back out onto the ledge holding his knife to lily's neck. buffy stops in her tracks. the guards chasing her quickly catch up and grab her by the arms.
ken: one of you fights . . . and you all die!
scene direction: he lets go of lily and pushes her aside. he stares intently down at buffy.
ken: that . . . was not . . . permitted.
buffy: yeah, but it was fun.
scene direction: ken smiles
ken: you've got guts. i think i'd like to slice you open and play with them.
scene direction: he holds up his knife and addresses everyone in the area.
ken: let everyone know!
scene direction: lily cowers behind him. ken seems to have forgotten that she's there.
ken: *this* is the price of rebellio-- lily pushes him from behind, and he falls screaming from the high ledge to the floor below. the guards holding buffy just watch as he hits bottom with a loud thud. buffy gives lily a surprised look, and then quickly takes advantage of the distraction and backhand punches her captors, one in the face and the other in the groin. while the second one is dazed, she shoves her weight against him, and he falls backward onto a barrel. the first one punches high, but she blocks, grabs his arm and flips him over onto a pile of burlap sacks. buffy jumps up onto the pile and steps across her fallen attacker. he tries to grab her, but misses. she jumps high into the air and grabs hold of a heavy chain hanging from above. she climbs it hand-over-hand as quickly as she can to the ledge where lily is still standing. the two of them run through the door and quickly find their way to the others, struggling with a heavy iron gate.
lily: they'll be coming.
scene direction: buffy crouches down and takes hold of the gate, bracing herself for a very heavy lift. she begins to raise the gate, straining as she goes.
scene direction: buffy grunts
buffy: okay . . . this . . . works . . . the abs . . . and . . . the glutes.
scene direction: buffy grunts
scene direction: as soon as she gets it high enough, lily waves to the others to crawl underneath. they all scramble to the other side.
buffy: i'm gonna feel this for a week!
scene direction: she holds the gate up over her head and squeezes her head and shoulders between two of the bars to get to the other side. suddenly ken appears behind her, bloodied from his fall, and tackles her to the floor. his club goes flying. the gate falls down behind him. he suddenly arches up and screams in pain. buffy rolls to a stop out of his reach. she gets to her hands and knees and looks over at him as he continues to scream in pain. the camera pans from his bloody face over his back and to his legs, where two of the gate's bars have impaled themselves through his calves. the slaves help each other up through the black slime of the pool in the ceiling. buffy gets to her feet and picks up ken's club. she approaches him, and he arches his back to look up at her.
ken: you've *ruined* . . . you . . .
buffy: hey, ken, wanna see my impression of gandhi?
scene direction: she wields back the club and brings it down hard onto his head, crushing his skull. lily comes up behind her and looks at him squeamishly.
lily: gandhi?
buffy: well, you know, if he was really pissed off.
scene change: cut to the pool room at family home. the homeless people walk out of the room. lily is kneeling by the pool helping buffy out. she yanks her legs from the slime and rolls onto the floor. they both get up and look at the pool.
scene direction: lily points
lily: what do we do about-- with a flash of light, the pool mysteriously tiles itself over to match the tiles along the edges. it now appears to be a six-inch
scene direction: lily 15 cm
lily: deep, empty ceremonial pool. the two girls just stare at it in wonder.
scene change: cut to buffy's apartment. buffy has finished cleaning herself up in the kitchen. lily is looking at the folding doors that separate the kitchen from the rest of the apartment.
buffy: let me give you the tour.
scene direction: she walks into the main room and slowly turns to face lily.
buffy: this concludes our tour.
scene direction: lily leans against the wall.
lily: it's really nice.
scene direction: buffy leans against the dresser.
buffy: all the rent's paid up for the next three weeks.
scene direction: she turns around and opens one of the dresser drawers.
buffy: i spoke to mitch at the diner.
scene direction: buffy pulls out her uniform
buffy: he said you can start on thursday.
scene direction: buffy steps over to the bed
buffy: he's, uh . . .
scene direction: buffy lays down the uniform
buffy: he's kind of . . . repulsive, but, uh, he won't give you a hard time.
scene direction: lily sits down on the bed and puts her hand on the uniform.
buffy: um . . . i'll call and check up on you.
lily: i'm not . . . great
scene direction: lily looks at buffy
lily: at taking care of myself.
buffy: gets easier. takes practice.
scene direction: she looks down sadly. lily knows the feeling. she looks back down at the uniform and the nametag pinned to it.
lily: hey . . .
scene direction: buffy looks up at her.
lily: can i be 'anne'?
scene direction: she smiles at buffy. buffy smiles back.
scene change: cut to the kitchen at the summers house. joyce is trying to get a stuck utensil out of the dishwasher. there's a knock at the door, and joyce looks up startled. she frowns at the fork she pulled out and puts it down. she gets up, grabs a towel and heads for the front door, wiping her hands. in the dining room she pauses and looks toward the door, suddenly wondering who might be there. she drapes the towel over a chair and slowly goes to the door. when she opens it, there stands buffy, looking sad, tired and disheveled. for a long moment they just look at each other without saying a word. then they step toward each other and hold each other close for a long, tight embrace 