scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: sunnydale cemetery at night. the camera is high above and angled down sharply on buffy sitting on a blanket with her legs covered by another one, and giles behind a nearby gravestone. he has a book open and reads from it as the camera pans down and pulls in until it is level with him.
giles: 'and on that tragic day, an era came to its inevitable end.' that's all there is. are you ready?
buffy: hit me.
giles: which of the following best expresses the theme of the passage? a) violence breeds violence, b) all things must end, c)...
scene direction: buffy looks down at her answer sheet and fills in a bubble with her no. 2 pencil.
buffy: 'b'. i'm going with 'b'. we haven't had 'b' in forever.
scene direction: giles exasperated
giles: this is the sats, buffy, not connect-the-dots. please pay attention. a low score could seriously harm your chances of getting into college.
buffy: gee, thanks. that takes the pressure right off.
giles: this isn't meant to be easy, you know. it's a rite of passage.
buffy: well, is it too late to join a tribe where they just pierce something or cut something off?
giles: buffy, please concentrate.
scene direction: giles looks back at his book
scene direction: she sees a vampire approach behind him.
buffy: roll!
scene direction: she tosses her notebook and answer sheet off of her lap and scrambles out from under her blanket and to her feet.
scene direction: giles looks up
giles: what?
scene direction: he sees her rushing toward him, instantly realizes that he needs to get out of the way and shoulder rolls onto the ground out of danger. buffy vaults herself over the gravestone, finishing in a roundoff to the ground, and without a moment's hesitation side kicks the advancing vampire in the stomach. he goes flying backward, landing hard on his back. buffy rushes him, grabs his legs and pushes them up, forcing him into a back roll away from her. the vampire ends up in a standing position and tries to punch her, but misses her entirely. she tries a punch, but he middle blocks her and takes a swing with his free hand at her face. she ducks both it and the next punch he throws. she straightens back up and roundhouse kicks him in the side, but he keeps his balance and tries to roundhouse kick her in turn. she ducks it, and his momentum carries him around in a spin. he comes to a stop facing her and tries to punch her in the face, but she grabs onto his arm and blocks his next punch. he brings his free hand up again, but she smashes her forearm down to block it. seeing an opening, buffy takes her pencil and stabs him cleanly in the chest. she pulls it back out, and the vampire bursts into ashes. buffy starts back to her blanket. she looks at the tip of her pencil and sees that it's broken.
buffy: hmm. i broke my no. 2 pencil. we'll have to do this again sometime.
scene direction: giles extends his hand to her holding a sharpened no. 2 pencil.
giles: c) all systems tend towards chaos.
scene direction: she flips her broken pencil at him and snatches the new one from his hand. giles watches her old pencil fly by him and hit the ground next to him. buffy sits back down cross-legged on her blanket and picks up her notebook and answer sheet.
buffy: i just know that us and the undead are the only people in sunnydale working this late.
scene direction: she pouts up at giles and waits for him to start reading again.
scene change: cut to sunnydale city hall.
mayor wilkins: i appreciate you coming.
scene direction: cut inside to the mayor's office. he's leaning on the backrest of his chair, smiling. he starts to walk out from behind his desk.
mayor wilkins: i realize it is early... for you... but i think you'll agree that this matter is urgent,
scene direction: mayor wilkins stops next to trick
mayor wilkins: also...
scene direction: delicate.
trick: i'm a very delicate person.
mayor wilkins: so you feel you can handle this?
scene direction: trick inhales
trick: it's a little out of my element, but i can get you what you need. i know a beast who knows a guy.
scene direction: mayor wilkins heads over to a wall cabinet
mayor wilkins: are you sure that subcontracting is the way to go here?
trick: well, this guy's worked your town before, and if he lives up to his rep,
scene direction: trick smiles
trick: this place'll be in flames.
mayor wilkins: i've made certain deals to get where i am today. this demon requires his tribute.
scene direction: mayor wilkins unlocks the cabinet
mayor wilkins: you see, that's what separates me from other politicians, mr. trick.
scene direction: he opens the cabinet. the shelves are full of occult paraphernalia - skulls, a fetus preserved in a bottle, various urns and chests, a shrunken head, the bones of a forearm and hand, and various tools of the trade. trick looks uneasily at all of it from his vantage point by the mayor's desk.
mayor wilkins: i *keep* my campaign promises.
scene direction: he reaches in and takes out the shrunken head. he pulls on the tuft of hair at the top, and a small section of the head pulls open and folds back on the leathery skin. the mayor takes a quick sniff from the hole and closes the flap of skull and skin again.
mayor wilkins: where'd i put that scotch?
scene direction: mayor wilkins looks around
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: the quad at sunnydale high. buffy, willow and oz appear at the top of the outside stairs and start down.
buffy: and then i was being chased by an improperly filled-in answer bubble screaming, 'none of the above!' willow: wow. i hope that wasn't one of your prophecy dreams.
scene direction: buffy gets a look from buffy
buffy: probably not.
oz: hey, you know, i took it last year. i could help you get ready.
scene direction: there's this whole trick to antonyms, but... this isn't the place.
willow: oz is the highest-scoring person ever to fail to graduate.
scene direction: they reach the bottom of the stairs and continue to walk along the colonnade.
buffy: isn't she cute when she's proud?
oz: she's always cute.
scene direction: cordelia and xander come out through the breezeway and walk behind them.
willow: we could work on it tonight.
xander: work on what tonight?
cordelia: oh, god. are we killing something again?
buffy: only my carefree spirit.
oz: buffy sat prep.
willow: oz is helping.
scene direction: willow smiling proudly
willow: he's the highest-scoring...
scene direction: cordelia interrupts
cordelia: we know. we did the impressed thing already.
scene direction: willow frowns.
xander: i hate they make us take that thing. it's totally fascist, and personally, i think it, uh, discriminates against the uninformed.
cordelia: actually, i'm looking forward to it. i do well on standardized tests.
scene direction: she gets looks from everyone.
cordelia: what? i can't have layers?
scene change: cut to the hall doors near the cafeteria. the group enters.
willow: so, buff, study tonight?
buffy: uh, yes on the studying, no on tonight. i'm putting in mom time. she's been drastic ever since i got back. and giles is even worse. i'm supervised 24-7.
scene direction: they turn into the cafeteria.
buffy: it's like being in the real world house, only real.
willow: hmm.
scene direction: they see a table piled up with boxes of milkbar fund-raiser chocolate bars. other students are each taking a box as snyder checks their names off on his clipboard.
willow: ooh, candy bars! lots of 'em!
scene direction: snyder holds out a box.
xander: principal snyder, thank you!
scene direction: xander takes the box
xander: you weren't visited by the ghost of christmas past, by any chance?
snyder: it's band candy.
buffy: let's hear it for the band, huh? very generous.
snyder: you will sell it to raise money for the marching band. they need new uniforms.
xander: yeah. those tall, fuzzy hats ain't cheap, huh?
oz: but they go with everything.
scene direction: willow smiles at that.
buffy: i'm sure we love the idea of going all willy loman, but we're not in the band.
snyder: and if i'd handed you a trombone, that would've been a problem, summers.
scene direction: snyder holds out a box
snyder: it's candy.
scene direction: snyder she takes it
snyder: sell it.
scene direction: he walks off leaving them all staring at their boxes.
scene change: cut to the kitchen at buffy's house. she and her mother are eating chinese food for dinner at the island.
joyce: but you're not in the band.
buffy: and yet.
joyce: buffy, what would i do with forty chocolate bars?
buffy: you could hand them out at the gallery. 'buy something pre- columbian, get a free cavity.' her mother considers, and decides it can't hurt to at least help.
joyce: twenty.
scene direction: she hands her daughter back the box.
buffy: you're a good mom.
scene direction: buffy sets down the box
joyce: i'm the best.
scene direction: buffy picks up her glass
buffy: no, i'm pretty sure the best moms let their daughters drive.
scene direction: she takes a sip of her water, eyeing her mother hopefully.
joyce: and yet.
scene direction: buffy sets down her glass
buffy: oh, come on!
scene direction: joyce gets up
joyce: look, let's not have this conversation.
scene direction: joyce goes to the fridge
buffy: but i took the class. i watched the filmstrips with the blood and the death and the corpses. i'm prepped.
scene direction: joyce opens the fridge
joyce: honey,
scene direction: joyce grabs the water jug
joyce: you failed the written test.
scene direction: joyce pours herself more
joyce: they wouldn't even let you *take* the road test.
scene direction: joyce puts the water back
buffy: that was a year ago. and i don't test well... she said, two days before the sats.
scene direction: joyce comes back to her seat
joyce: i spend enough time not knowing where you are.
scene direction: joyce sits
joyce: i don't wanna add to that the possibility that you're on the highway to chicago.
scene direction: joyce takes a drink
scene direction: buffy dumbfounded
buffy: i can't believe you. i'm *not* taking off again.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: besides, if i wanted to, i could just get on a bus.
joyce: stop.
scene direction: joyce inhales
joyce: don't.
scene direction: joyce exhales and looks at buffy intensely
joyce: i just don't want you driving, okay? i want you here.
scene direction: buffy widens her eyes
buffy: i'm here. hmm?
scene direction: buffy picks up her egg roll
buffy: see me here.
scene direction: buffy takes a bite
buffy: mm-hm?
scene direction: joyce nods and turns back to her plate.
scene direction: buffy with her mouth full
buffy: mm... i gotta go.
scene direction: buffy gets up and grabs her box of candy bars
joyce: what, you're going out?
scene direction: buffy turns back at the door
buffy: giles. slay-study double feature. could be late.
joyce: again? honey, don't you think mr. giles is monopolizing an awful lot of your time?
buffy: and does he ever say he's sorry?
scene change: cut to the library. giles is tying a blindfold tightly around buffy's head.
buffy: ow!
giles: sorry.
buffy: why do i put up with this?
giles: because it is your destiny...
scene direction: giles walks around her
giles: and because i just bought twenty 'cocorific' candy bars.
scene direction: giles hands her a large rubber ball
buffy: okay, you're just doing this to take funny pictures of me.
scene direction: giles walks around her
giles: i'm doing it to test your awareness of an opponent's location during a fight in total darkness. now, wait five seconds and then throw the ball at me.
scene direction: he silently backtracks and takes several steps away from her toward the cage.
buffy: you ran out of new training ideas about a week ago, huh? okay.
scene direction: five, four, three, two, one.
scene direction: she turns around and faces the door to giles' office. he smiles, thinking she's completely clueless as to where he is. buffy throws the ball. it hits the wall high above the checkout counter and bounces off.
giles: it's not that simple, is it...
scene direction: the ball bumps him in the side of the head.
giles: ow. ahem. yes, well, very good.
scene direction: buffy takes off the blindfold
buffy: thanks!
scene direction: buffy heads out of the library
giles: w-w-w-where are you going? we have to patrol!
scene direction: buffy stops and faces him
buffy: i can't. mom's in hyperdrive. she wants me home tonight. i told you.
scene direction: buffy starts out again
giles: but, i...
scene direction: buffy stops by the door
buffy: i know, i know. she's out of control. enjoy the candy!
scene direction: buffy leaves
scene direction: giles looks at the swinging library door for a moment, considering her odd behavior.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. cut inside. the door to the atrium is open. the camera slowly tracks toward it. soon a shirtless angel is in view, practicing the slow, elegant forms of t'ai chi. he brings his arms down together in front of him and then over to his right. as he brings his left arm up across his abdomen, he crosses his right arm over his left.
scene direction: his motions remains fluid as he slowly moves his left arm out in front of him, palm up, and extends his right arm out to his side. he draws his arms together again, this time crossing his left arm over his right and repeats a mirror image of his last move. never stopping his motion, he brings both hands to his waist, palms facing forward, and slowly raises his right arm and sweeps it across in front of himself, palm down, while he sweeps his left arm across below his right, palm up. buffy walks into the doorway and stops just to watch him, amazed at the fluidity and smoothness of his motions. angel doesn't notice her, and continues the exercises. he has his arms extended, his left hand angled up sharply from his forearm, and his right hand clasping the heel of his left. he brings them around in a broad sweeping motion toward buffy and then raises them, separates them and spreads them apart with his palms facing away from him. he raises his head as he does so and sees buffy standing there watching him.
angel: buffy.
scene direction: she looks down briefly, slightly embarrassed to be caught watching him like that, and then looks up at him again with a little smile on her lips.
buffy: i didn't know you could do that.
scene direction: he gives her the briefest glimpse of a small smile as he tries to straighten himself up from his slightly bent stance.
angel: i-i'm feeling better.
scene direction: he can't maintain his posture, and bends back over, supporting himself with his right hand on his knee. buffy rushes to his aid.
buffy: angel...
scene direction: she gets under his left arm and helps him stand up straight.
buffy: let's... get you inside.
scene direction: they slowly make their way back into the mansion. cut inside. there is a warm fire going in the fireplace. buffy picks up a small paper bag as they go past the coffee table in front of it.
angel: it's late. how'd you get away?
buffy: aw, it was easy. started a fire in the prison laundry room. rode out in the garbage truck.
scene direction: they stop and let go. angel faces buffy, not sure what to make of that.
angel: oh.
scene direction: he sits on the edge of the couch.
buffy: i'm joking.
scene direction: buffy raises her right hand and waves it
buffy: no garbage.
scene direction: smell me.
scene direction: she steps closer to him, but stops. angel just looks up at her. she lowers her arm and sighs. she puts the bag down next to him and steps over to an adjacent couch set at a right angle to his, and sits also, but very stiffly. angel leans back on his cushions.
angel: how is, uh... scott?
buffy: scott?
scene direction: buffy smiles weakly and looks down
buffy: oh, um... boyfriend scott.
scene direction: uh... (inhales deeply) a-actually, he's not... (looks up at him) he's fine. (exhales and nods)
scene direction: angel gives her a little nod. buffy indicates the bag she left next to him.
buffy: uh, that's for you.
scene direction: angel reaches for it.
buffy: uh... i-it's fresh from the butcher.
angel: thanks.
scene direction: he reaches in and takes out a quart-sized plastic tub of blood. he gives it a brief look, then slips it back into the bag and sets it aside.
scene direction: buffy looks away shyly, knowing he doesn't want to eat in front of her.
angel: you're being careful, right?
scene direction: buffy looks up surprised
buffy: with scott?
angel: the slaying.
buffy: oh.
scene direction: buffy smiles and exhales
buffy: uh... yeah. of course.
scene direction: buffy nodding a lot
scene direction: full of carefulness.
scene direction: angel looks down
angel: i worry about you.
scene direction: angel looks at her
scene direction: buffy pauses briefly
buffy: i worry about *you*.
scene direction: he stares down again for a moment, stroking the cushions.
angel: i'm getting stronger.
scene direction: buffy gives him a little smile
buffy: yeah, pretty soon, you won't even need me.
scene direction: angel nods a little
angel: that'll be better.
scene direction: buffy unsure how to take that
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: they continue to sit in silence.
scene change: cut to buffy's house. she opens the front door and comes in. she swings it closed behind her and sets her books down on the table by the coat rack. she turns around and is startled by her mother standing by the stairs and looking at her unusually calmly while rubbing her fingers over a chocolate bar in her hands.
buffy: hey!
scene direction: buffy thinks fast
buffy: uh, sorry i'm late. you know giles. all slay, all the time.
scene direction: giles steps into view from the dining room with his arms crossed and a stern look on his face.
giles: hello, buffy.
scene direction: buffy gestures into the living room
buffy: do you guys wanna watch some television? i hear there's a very insightful nightline on.
joyce: buffy, you lied to us. and you made us into your alibis.
scene direction: that's... playing us against each other, and that's not fair.
giles: i called willow.
scene direction: giles buffy is at a loss
giles: you also lied to her about your whereabouts. we were all concerned.
scene direction: joyce unwraps her chocolate bar and holds it out to giles to take a piece.
giles: oh, thank you.
scene direction: giles breaks off a piece
buffy: look, i'm sorry, but i had to...
scene direction: she turns around and walks into the living room. joyce follows her, and giles also a few paces behind.
joyce: were you at the bronze? what was happening there that was so important?
scene direction: buffy stops, lets out an exasperated sigh and turns to face her mother.
scene direction: buffy gestures and shrugs
buffy: bronze things. things of bronze.
scene direction: joyce chews on a piece of her chocolate bar.
scene direction: joyce condescendingly
joyce: you're acting really immature, buffy.
scene direction: giles also chewing
giles: i know i'm not your parent, but i am responsible for you. i think your mum's right.
scene direction: giles sits on a couch armrest
buffy: okay, fine. i'm acting like a child. maybe that's because you're both treating me like a child.
scene direction: joyce sounding hurt
joyce: buffy!
buffy: you're both scheduling me twenty-four hours a day. between the two of you, that's forty-eight hours.
scene direction: buffy giles takes off his glasses
buffy: i just wanna be able to make a few decisions on my own.
joyce: the last time you made a decision on your own, you split.
scene direction: joyce pops another piece of candy
buffy: yeah, and i took care of myself. i don't need this much active parenting.
scene direction: joyce incredulous
joyce: you can't really be trying to use this summer as a reason you should be trusted.
scene direction: joyce eats another piece
buffy: you can't babysit me all the time. i need you to back off a little.
scene direction: giles holds up his hand
giles: uh, alright, come on. let's, let's not, uh, freak out.
scene direction: buffy taken aback
buffy: 'freak out'?
giles: mm-hm.
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: uh, i think you should go to bed.
scene direction: giles puts his glasses back on
giles: um, we're all tired.
scene direction: buffy just looks at the two of them as though they're crazy. she faces away for a moment and then walks off to her room. her mother watches her go, shaking her head.
joyce: oh, she just drives me crazy!
scene direction: she sighs and crumbles up the end of the candy wrapper and drops it onto the coffee table. giles scratches his head and steps back over to the couch to sit. joyce goes to join him.
joyce: i just want to protect her.
scene direction: they both sit down. the camera lowers its angle.
giles: don't all parents want that?
scene direction: he reaches into his jacket pocket to pull out a candy bar of his own.
scene direction: there is an entire box of them on the coffee table next to various picture books. he starts to unwrap his bar.
joyce: yeah, but at least most parents have some idea what to protect their children from.
giles: yeah. and i think we should both be especially careful.
scene direction: he breaks off a piece, sticks it into his mouth and hands the rest to joyce.
joyce: mm.
scene direction: she takes a piece and munches on it. giles reaches into the box on the table for yet another bar.
scene change: cut to the milkbar factory, makers of "the best chocolate bar", according to the box. a worker opens the top box of an as yet unsealed case and reaches in for a bar. he pulls back the outer wrapper, looks around to see if anyone is watching, and starts to peel back the foil when suddenly ethan rayne comes up behind him and puts his hand on his shoulder.
ethan: trust me.
scene direction: ethan steps around the worker to face him
ethan: you don't want to eat that.
scene direction: ethan walks off as the worker quickly puts the bar back into its box before it gets sealed for shipping.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: study hall in the science classroom. a boy throws a wad of paper at another.
boy: think fast.
scene direction: the target boy almost manages to catch the paper, snags it as it's about to roll from the table and sets it aside. a moment later he takes it again and looks back at the boy who threw it, watching for an opening.
scene direction: the camera closes in on cordelia and buffy sitting at the table behind him.
scene direction: cordelia sighs
cordelia: i heard that there was a secret rule that if a teacher's more than ten minutes late, we can all leave.
scene direction: buffy looks up from studying
buffy: it's giles' turn to watch study hall.
scene direction: he'll be here. (looks back at her book) he's allergic to late.
scene direction: cordelia sighs
cordelia: he is wound a little tight. i had this philosophy book checked out from the library for, like, a year, and he made me pay the fine, even though it was huge.
scene direction: cordelia buffy gives her a look
cordelia: i was sad to return it.
scene direction: cordelia smiles
cordelia: it was perfect for starting conversations with college boys.
scene direction: cordelia lets out a little laugh
cordelia: of course, that was b.x.
buffy: b.x.?
scene direction: buffy gets a nod from cordelia
buffy: before xander. clever.
scene direction: they both go back to their studying. willow and xander are at the table behind them. xander is busy munching on a chocolate bar. the books in front of him are closed.
xander: i like chocolate.
scene direction: xander willow looks at him
xander: there is no bad here.
willow: you still have some left?
scene direction: willow shrugs
willow: i went to, like, four houses, and they were gone. it's like trick-or-treating in reverse.
scene direction: willow smiles at him
xander: i know. these things are selling like hot cakes...
scene direction: xander they look at each other
xander: which is ironic, 'cause the hot cakes really aren't moving...
scene direction: the camera descends below the lab table. their knees are touching. they each dangle a leg from their stools and brush them against each other.
xander: and it's, uh, ahem, fun to sell chocolate. ahem.
scene direction: willow rubs her calf along xander's shin. cut back above.
willow: and we're raising a lot of money for the band.
scene direction: xander looks back and forth between willow and his chocolate bar a few times, then focuses on his candy. willow plays with her pencil while looking at her book.
xander: the band. yeah. they're great. they march.
scene direction: cut below the table. they continue to rub their legs together.
willow: like an army.
scene direction: willow cut above
scene direction: willow very distracted
willow: e-e-except with music instead of bullets, and... usually no one dies.
scene direction: cut below. they rub their shoes against each other with their legs still crossed. cut above. cordelia suddenly turns to face them.
cordelia: i can't believe this.
scene direction: cut below. willow and xander immediately whip their legs apart. cut above. they both hit opposite legs of the table and make it lurch with a loud thunk and pray that they haven't given themselves away.
cordelia: where is giles already? i'm bored, and he's not here to give me credit for it.
scene direction: buffy looks over at the classroom door, suddenly concerned.
scene change: cut to the halls. principal snyder and ms. barton are walking toward the classroom. snyder has a chocolate bar in his hands.
snyder: the big pinhead librarian didn't show up, and i don't wanna do it.
scene direction: snyder points at her with his candy bar
snyder: you do it.
ms. barton: alright, fine. i'll do it.
scene direction: she turns to go into the room and rolls her eyes.
scene direction: snyder to himself
snyder: everybody expects me to do everything around here because i'm the principal.
scene direction: snyder starts to walk
snyder: it's not fair.
scene direction: cut into the science room. ms. barton comes in and claps her hands a few times to get the students' attention.
ms. barton: hey! we're all stuck here, okay? so now let's just sit quietly and,
scene direction: ms. barton indicates a book on the teacher's desk and smiles
ms. barton: and pretend we're reading something
scene direction: ms. barton buffy is confused
ms. barton: until we're really sure that old commandant snyder's gone. then we're all outta here!
scene direction: ms. barton smiles widely
xander: does anyone else wanna marry ms. barton?
cordelia: get in line.
willow: i guess giles isn't coming?
scene direction: buffy very concerned
buffy: i guess not.
scene change: cut to outside giles' apartment. buffy walks up to the door and stops.
scene direction: she peers in through the view port, sees giles and goes in. cut inside.
scene direction: giles is crouched by a cabinet where he keeps his vinyl record collection, looking at an album. buffy comes in and closes the door behind her. the sound gets giles' attention, and he looks up.
giles: buffy.
scene direction: he slips the record into the cabinet. the camera cuts behind him and slowly pans right past his couch where joyce is sitting.
scene direction: buffy walks in
buffy: uh... sorry. i... i was just worried. you were a big not-there in study hall, and after your lecture to me on not ducking out...
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: and what is my mother doing here?
scene direction: giles steps over to joyce.
scene direction: giles with a mouth full of chocolate
giles: we had an opportunity for, um, you might say, a summit meeting. it took priority over study hall. i called in.
scene direction: buffy still confused
buffy: oh.
joyce: we decided that you made a good point earlier, honey.
scene direction: she and giles both nod.
buffy: i did. yeah.
scene direction: buffy very confused now
buffy: which was...?
joyce: a-about us overscheduling you.
scene direction: joyce looks to giles for support
giles: pulling you in two directions,
scene direction: giles sits on the coffee table
giles: uh, your home life and your duties as a slayer.
buffy: oh. that was a good point.
joyce: we're working out a coordinated schedule for you.
giles: it'll be tight, but, uh, i think we can fit in all your responsibilities.
scene direction: giles smiles
scene direction: buffy gives them an uncertain smile
buffy: sounds nice and structured.
joyce: we've got more work to do here, honey. why don't you give us a little more time?
scene direction: giles gets up and walks over to the fireplace mantel to stare at a picture. joyce reaches into her purse, pulls out her car keys and stands up.
joyce: um... take the car, and, um, mr. giles can drive me home.
scene direction: joyce holds out the keys
scene direction: buffy wide-eyed
buffy: what?
scene direction: buffy smiles and shakes her head
buffy: excuse me, i meant what?!
joyce: keys. take them.
buffy: you don't have to tell *me* twice. well, actually, you did, but...
scene direction: buffy snatches the keys
buffy: bye!
scene direction: buffy rushes out
joyce: bye, honey. drive careful.
scene direction: buffy opens the door
buffy: uh-huh!
scene direction: she runs out the door without looking back, pulling it closed behind her. joyce turns to face giles.
joyce: do you think she noticed anything?
scene direction: he turns to face her. a cigarette dangles from his lips. he lights his lighter.
giles: no way!
scene direction: he holds the flame to his cigarette. joyce smiles and reaches down for a bottle that she had squirreled away under the end table. she twists off the cap. giles closes his lighter and takes a drag. he takes the cigarette out of his mouth and takes a deep breath.
scene change: cut to a residential street later that night. buffy and willow are driving along in joyce's jeep.
willow: tell me again how it happened.
buffy: told my mom i wanted to be treated more like a grownup, and voila
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: driviness.
scene direction: she takes a corner without slowing down, and skids around it. that shakes up willow, and she begins to breathe nervously.
buffy: also, i think she wanted me otherwhere. considering my mom and giles are planning my future, i think it's easier for them to live my life if i'm not actually there.
scene direction: willow notices the parking brake
willow: do you know that you have the parking brake on?
buffy: uh-huh.
scene direction: she releases the parking brake. the engine suddenly begins to rev much higher, and they accelerate.
scene direction: willow nervously
willow: are, are you sure about the bronze? i mean, the sats are tomorrow.
buffy: i can study at the bronze.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: a little dancing, a little cross-multiplying.
scene direction: buffy smiles wickedly
buffy: you know what we need?
scene direction: she reaches over, turns on the radio and begins to turn the station dial. in the process she bends over too low to see over the dashboard.
willow: eyes on the road! eyes on the road!
scene direction: while changing stations, buffy doesn't realize that she is pulling on the steering wheel, and the car makes a wide left turn, but fortunately onto another road, and so doesn't hit anything.
scene change: cut to giles apartment. he's lying on his back on the floor, coat and tie gone, shirt unbuttoned to reveal his undershirt, getting ready to light a pair of cigarettes as he grooves to the sound of cream singing "tales of brave ulysses" on vinyl playing on his record player. joyce is sitting cross-legged in front of his record cabinet looking through his albums as she grooves also.
joyce: you got good albums.
giles: yeah, they're okay.
scene direction: giles lights the cigarettes
lyrics: and the colors of the sea bind your eyes with trembling mermaids joyce: do you like seals and croft?
scene direction: giles turns his head to give her a look.
lyrics: and you touch the distant beaches with tales of brave ulysses joyce: yeah, me neither.
scene direction: giles hands her one of the smokes.
lyrics: how his naked ears were tortured by the sirens sweetly singing joyce: thanks.
scene direction: lyrics takes a drag
lyrics: for the sparkling waves are calling you joyce: so how come they, uh, call you ripper?
lyrics: to kiss their white-laced lips giles:
scene direction: lyrics sits up
lyrics: wouldn't you like to know.
scene direction: the song goes into a guitar riff between verses.
giles: hmm, wait a minute. listen to this bit.
scene direction: he gets into it, smiling, bobbing his head and waving his cigarette to the beat. behind him joyce takes another drag.
giles: it rocks!
lyrics: and you see a girl's brown body joyce: it's good.
scene direction: giles gets up and goes to look into the mirror above the record cabinet.
giles: man, i gotta get a band together.
scene direction: he starts running his fingers through his hair.
lyrics: dancing through the turquoise joyce:
scene direction: lyrics stands up
lyrics: hey, ripper, you wanna watch tv?
lyrics: and her footprints make you follow where the sky loves the sea joyce:
scene direction: lyrics leans against the cabinet
lyrics: i know how to order pay-per-view.
scene direction: giles takes off his outer shirt
giles: no, let's go out and have some fun.
lyrics: and when your fingers find her, she drowns you in her body giles: tear things up a bit.
joyce: okay. we could go to the bronze.
lyrics: carving deep blue ripples in the tissues of your mind giles: not bloody likely. that place is dead.
scene change: cut to the bronze. a guy has his head tilted back as the bartender pours orange juice and vodka directly into his mouth. his friends surround him and goad him on. there are unusual numbers of older people there.
scene direction: dingoes ate my baby (four star mary) is on the stage performing "violent". the dance floor is very crowded with people of all ages. even the older couples are dancing to the beat of the band. on stage devon dances around to the lead-in. just before the song begins he leans over to oz.
devon: hey, they're diggin' us, man!
scene change: cut to willow and buffy coming into the bronze. they look around at the unusual mix of people in the crowd.
lyrics: the strangest things / i've always known oz sees willow and smiles.
lyrics: it slays me every time willow and buffy give each other very amazed and concerned looks.
lyrics: darkened fields / have overgrown willow and buffy continue through the crowd.
buffy: let's do the time warp again.
lyrics: you want to lay me out?
willow: maybe there's a reunion in town or, or a billy joel tour or something.
lyrics: tie me down? / tie me ms. barton walks past the two girls.
buffy: ms. barton?
scene direction: ms. barton stops and faces her
ms. barton: buffy? whoa!
lyrics: our love willow: are you okay, ms. barton?
lyrics: covered in my blood ms. barton:
scene direction: lyrics smiles widely
lyrics: oh, i'm cool, willow.
scene direction: lyrics realizes
lyrics: willow... that's a tree.
scene direction: lyrics giggles
lyrics: you're a tree!
scene direction: willow and buffy exchange a look.
lyrics: is so violent ms. barton:
scene direction: lyrics looks around
lyrics: yeah, uh, uh, are there any nachos in here, little tree?
lyrics: our love buffy: a-are you sure you don't need some fresh air, ms. barton?
scene direction: ms. barton laughs hysterically
ms. barton: okay...
scene direction: ms. barton goes into the crowd
lyrics: covered in my blood willow: hey, this is not normal.
scene direction: buffy gives her a look.
lyrics: is so violent willow: uh, w-well, maybe that goes without saying.
scene direction: snyder spots them from behind and comes up between them.
scene direction: snyder smiling hugely
snyder: hey, gang!
scene direction: snyder puts his arms around the girls' shoulders
snyder: this place is fun city, huh?
scene direction: snyder laughs
buffy: principal snyder?
lyrics: shake this scene / another one snyder: call me snyder. just a last name, like...
scene direction: lyrics trying to be cool
scene direction: barbarino.
scene direction: he lets go of the girls and pumps his arms and fists around wildly.
scene direction: willow leans slightly away from him.
snyder: ooh! i'm so stoked!
scene direction: willow has no idea what to make of this. snyder comes back down from his outburst and lets out a breath.
lyrics: it plays me every time snyder: hey, did you see ms. barton? i think she's wasted.
lyrics: we're not that green snyder: i'm gonna have to put that in her next performance review 'cause...
scene direction: lyrics smiles
lyrics: 'cause i'm the principal!
scene direction: lyrics laughs
lyrics: we're overdone snyder turns around and heads back into the crowd.
lyrics: you want to lay me out?
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: i don't like this. they could have heart attacks.
lyrics: tie me down?
buffy: uh, well... ma-maybe there's a doctor here.
scene direction: an older, shirtless man jumps up onto the stage, pushes devon away from the microphone stand and yells out into the crowd.
scene direction: man yelling
man: yeeeeaaaaaah!
willow: i think that *is* my doctor.
scene direction: the man jumps from the stage expecting to be caught by the crowd, but they don't react fast enough, and he slams into the floor. willow and buffy both cringe at the sight.
willow: he-he's usually less... topless.
scene direction: snyder sticks his head between the girls.
snyder: i got a commendation for being principal.
scene direction: snyder impressed with himself
snyder: from the mayor!
scene direction: snyder gestures
snyder: shook my hand twice.
buffy: that's nice.
scene direction: snyder nods and inhales deeply. two attractive women walk past them with drinks. snyder makes eyes at them.
snyder: whoa! there are some foxy ladies here tonight!
scene direction: he heads off after them. buffy and willow walk in the other direction.
willow: what's happening?
buffy: i don't know, but it's happening to a whole lot of grownups.
scene direction: they stop by the stairs. willow looks around at the crowd.
willow: they're acting like a bunch...
buffy: they're acting like a bunch of us.
lyrics: our love willow:
scene direction: lyrics confused
lyrics: i don't act like this.
lyrics: covered in my blood cut to the milkbar factory. boxes of chocolate bars keep rolling off of the line. trick and ethan walk through the shipping area.
trick: demand's high.
ethan: i thought it might be.
trick: that's the reason i love this country. you make a good product, and the people will come to you. of course, a lot of them are gonna die, but that's the other reason i love this country.
scene direction: they stop walking, and trick steps over to the man inspecting the boxes before they get sealed.
trick: hey! don't sample the product.
man: but i didn't.
scene direction: trick grabs him by the overalls, pulls him into a headlock and jerks his head around, breaking his neck and throwing him to the floor. ethan looks away in distaste. trick straightens his jacket and checks his pinky ring. they continue to walk.
ethan: okay. uh, how did you know he was...
trick: i don't. now i know no one else will.
scene direction: trick checks his watch
trick: we're getting close.
scene direction: trick to a line worker
trick: keep it flowing.
scene direction: trick to ethan
trick: it's almost feeding time.
scene direction: he walks off leaving ethan standing there staring after him. after a moment ethan heads back the way they came.
scene change: cut to the bronze. the dingoes are between sets, and oz has joined willow and buffy. they all observe the crowd. "slip jimmy", by every bit of nothing, plays in the background.
buffy: something's definitely changing them.
willow: a spell?
oz: they're teenagers. it's a sobering mirror to look into, huh?
scene direction: snyder walks by, sees oz and stops.
snyder: you've got great hair.
scene direction: he walks around oz, smiling and staring at his hair. suddenly the music stops and a group of older men start singing "louie louie" up on the stage. they are off key, out of sync and basically just plain terrible, but the crowd dances to them anyway.
old men: louie louie / oh, baby / we gotta go / yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah / louie louie / oh, baby / we gotta go / yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah an old nerd walks by as buffy and oz stare.
willow: it just gets more upsetting.
scene direction: several older couples on the dance floor kiss passionately.
old men: louie louie / oh, baby / we gotta go / yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah buffy: no vampire has ever been
scene direction: old men points at the stage
old men: *that* scary.
old men: louie louie / oh baby / we gotta go behind them a man staggers through the crowd, drunk and munching on a chocolate bar. he bumps into another man. they face each other and begin to pick a fight.
patron: fight!
scene direction: snyder turns to face the group, smiling and nodding his head vigorously.
snyder: fight!
scene direction: willow lets out a helpless sigh. buffy starts to head out.
buffy: we've gotta figure out what's going on. this has hellmouth fingerprints all over it.
scene direction: willow and oz follow her. she stops by a pinball machine where she sees a woman hold out a candy bar to her boyfriend. he takes a huge bite while he keeps playing the game. their pause gives snyder a chance to catch up after noticing they are leaving.
snyder: hey, where are we going?
scene direction: the four of them leave the club. cut outside. the three teenagers rush out and head for joyce's car. snyder is still inside.
snyder: wait up, you guys!
scene direction: he comes out the door.
snyder: hey! you guys aren't trying to ditch me, are ya?
scene direction: buffy, willow and oz get into the jeep. snyder follows them.
oz: we should find giles. he'll know what's going on, right?
scene direction: snyder runs up to the passenger side of the car, and seeing the places are taken, he goes around to the driver's side.
buffy: sure. except for all we know, he's sweet sixteen again.
scene direction: buffy pulls on her seat belt
willow: he's with your mom at his place.
scene direction: buffy starts the car. snyder opens the door behind her and gets in.
snyder: i said, wait up!
scene direction: snyder slams the door
oz: uh, snyder...
buffy: no time. he's coming with us.
scene direction: she puts the car in gear and slams on the gas, burning some rubber in her hurry to get going.
snyder: whoa, summers! you drive like a spaz!
scene change: cut to a residential street. two father types, one in his volvo, the other in his hyundai, are gunning their engines and munching on chocolate while waiting for the light to turn green. they look over at each other and nod and smile in anticipation of their race. they both take big bites out of their bars. a moment later the light turns, and they're off, tires screeching loudly as they race across the intersection and down the street.
scene change: cut to a playground in a park. the mailman is sitting on the carousel reading other people's mail. he laughs while he reads, then opens another one. behind him couples are necking and chasing each other around. near the jungle gym a couple of guys toss a frisbee around.
scene change: cut to a street. buffy and company come driving along at a fast clip.
scene direction: cut inside the car.
willow: it'll be okay when we get to giles'.
oz: of course, i mean, even if he's sixteen, he's still giles, right?
scene direction: he's probably a pretty together guy.
scene direction: willow worried
willow: yeah, well...
oz: what?
buffy: giles at sixteen? less together guy, more bad-magic-hates-the- world-ticking-time-bomb guy.
oz: well, then i guess your mom's in a lotta trouble.
scene direction: snyder raises his eyebrows and nods.
scene change: cut to the shopping district. giles and joyce walk along with their arms around each other.
joyce: must be exciting being from england.
scene direction: joyce chews her gum
giles: not particularly.
scene direction: giles kicks a can
giles: you cold?
scene direction: giles takes a puff of his cigarette
joyce: nah-uh. i feel... special, like i'm just waking up, kinda.
giles: oh, yeah?
joyce: yeah, like, uh, getting married and having a kid and everything was just a dream, and now things are back like they're supposed to be.
giles: yeah?
scene direction: they walk past a boutique with some retro clothes on display in the window, and stop to look. joyce spies a feathered wrap.
joyce: that's cool!
scene direction: joyce nods, smiles, chews
joyce: very juice newton.
scene direction: giles checks his hair in the reflection
giles: you fancy it?
joyce: yeah, but the store's closed.
scene direction: giles takes a final drag from his cigarette, then tosses it aside. he grabs a trashcan and idly swings it toward the store's display window.
scene direction: joyce quickly steps away. the glass shatters and falls everywhere when the can hits, and an alarm goes off. joyce smiles widely and giggles hysterically while giles climbs in and takes the wrap off of the mannequin. he grabs the hat from the mannequin as well and sets it on his head. joyce looks around to see if anyone is coming. giles comes back out and hops down to the sidewalk from the window opening.
giles: woo-hoo!
joyce: oh, ripper! wow, that was sooo brave!
scene direction: he helps her on with the wrap. suddenly a policeman appears behind them and aims his gun at them.
officer: hold it!
scene direction: giles and joyce freeze.
scene change: cut to an intersection. the camera starts high, showing that the light is green, and pans down to the gang driving along. cut inside the car.
snyder: this is great! let's do doughnuts in the football field, huh?
scene direction: they head into the intersection. another jeep comes in the other direction. the driver is too busy trying to get a chocolate bar unwrapped to realize that his light is red.
willow: oh, my god, look out!
scene direction: they all tense up for the impact. the other jeep hits them hard on the left rear door and back panel, making them spin around a quarter turn.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the street in front of the boutique. the police officer has his beretta 9mm aimed at giles, who lets go of joyce to face him. joyce backs away slowly. giles takes the hat from his head and tosses it aside. he steps toward the officer and waves his arms around, taunting him.
giles: ooo... copper's got a gun!
scene direction: he jumps around a bit, taunting the officer some more.
giles: you'll never use it, though, man.
officer: will so.
scene direction: giles spies a candy bar in the officer's front jacket pocket.
joyce: ripper, be careful!
scene direction: this distracts the officer, and giles bats his gun-holding hand aside, grabs it and holds onto it as he head-butts the older man in the forehead and knees him in the crotch and again in the gut. the cop doubles over in pain. giles twists the officer's arm up above his head and takes the beretta from him, and then knees him in the face. the cop falls over unconscious. giles sticks the gun into the back of his pants.
giles: told him he'd never use it.
scene direction: giles smiles
scene direction: he sashays coolly over to joyce as she leans against the police car.
joyce: you are sooo cool.
scene direction: joyce laughs
joyce: you're like burt reynolds.
scene direction: in a flash giles has one hand around her neck and the other around her back. she startles and gasps, but doesn't struggle. instead she takes the gum out of her mouth and they kiss passionately. giles leans her back over the hood of the car. the camera follows her down and continues until it comes to rest on the emblem of the sunnydale police department on the side of the car.
scene change: cut to buffy's accident site. the two jeeps are stopped side by side facing in opposite directions. the driver of the other jeep quickly gets out.
man: sorry! gotta go!
scene direction: he runs off laughing as buffy and the others get out of her mother's car. her first instinct is to chase the man, but she lets him go and looks at the dent in the car.
buffy: oh, god.
scene direction: she closes her door. snyder swings his door closed as well, but it won't shut properly anymore.
buffy: are you guys okay?
scene direction: snyder nods as he also looks at the dents. willow and oz walk around the car.
willow: is anybody else all creeped out and trembly?
scene direction: off to the side they see three men sitting in the playground, laughing and smoking.
snyder: oh, buffy...
scene direction: snyder rubs his shoulder
snyder: your mom's gonna kill you.
scene direction: buffy looks at the other side of the street and sees five guys hanging out by a tree.
buffy: something's weird.
oz: something's not?
buffy: no grownups.
scene direction: two women strut past the men by the tree, munching on chocolate. the guys give them catcalls. snyder starts to unwrap a bar of his own.
buffy: no one's protecting their houses. everyone's just... wandering.
scene direction: a man runs up behind snyder, grabs his chocolate bar and runs off with it.
snyder: hey!
scene direction: willow and oz stare at the man as he runs away.
snyder: hey, give it!
scene direction: snyder goes after the man
willow: defenseless.
buffy: so where are all the vampires?
scene direction: they all consider this strange dilemma.
buffy: soup's on, but no one's grabbing a spoon.
oz: something's happening... someplace that's else.
buffy: i'd say something big.
scene direction: snyder returns upset
snyder: that guy took my candy!
scene direction: buffy suddenly gets it, and gives willow and oz an astonished look.
buffy: the candy. i-it's gotta be the candy! it's cursed.
scene direction: willow and oz exchange a look.
scene direction: snyder worried
snyder: a curse?! oh, i've got a curse.
willow: god, using candy for evil!
oz: my parents ate a ton.
scene direction: buffy looks at snyder and jumps at him, pushing him up against the other jeep.
buffy: who's behind it?
scene direction: snyder confused
snyder: i don't know. it came through the school board.
scene direction: snyder shakes his head
snyder: if you knew that crowd...
scene direction: buffy losing her patience
buffy: where did it come from? do you know where to get it?
snyder: yeah.
scene direction: buffy to willow and oz
buffy: you guys get xander and cordelia. go to the library and look it up.
oz: candy curses?
willow: disturbing second childhood. got it.
scene direction: she takes oz's hand, and they start on their way.
scene direction: buffy to snyder
buffy: ratboy and i are going to the source.
scene direction: she shoves him toward the car.
scene change: cut to the loading dock behind the milkbar factory. two men have cases of chocolate open and are throwing them out into a crowd. the camera pans over the crowd, which is getting larger and rowdier by the minute, past giles and joyce, who are into some serious snogging, and comes to rest on joyce's jeep as buffy pulls it to a screeching halt. she and snyder get out and march over to the crowd. just as she passes her mother and watcher, buffy stops in her tracks. she turns to face them.
buffy: mom? giles?!
scene direction: giles not skipping a beat
giles: go away. we're busy.
buffy: mom!
scene direction: she pulls her mother away from her watcher.
joyce: hey!
scene direction: buffy shocked
buffy: where did you get that coat? never mind. listen...
scene direction: giles grabs her arm and turns her to face him.
giles: back off!
buffy: giles, think about this. you wanna fight me, or you wanna let me talk to my mother?
scene direction: giles realizes he wouldn't have a chance against her and backs down, yanking his hand from her and up to the side of his face, where he grabs a cigarette from behind his ear. buffy turns back to her mother as giles puts the cigarette into his mouth and reaches into his pocket for his lighter.
buffy: mom, look at me. do you know who i am?
scene direction: giles lights his smoke.
scene direction: joyce smiles
joyce: of course. you're buffy.
scene direction: joyce looks over at the crowd
joyce: hey, look. they're, they're giving away candy. you want some candy?
buffy: no, i don't! and you don't need any more, either.
scene direction: joyce very annoyed
joyce: i'm fine. i can have more if i want.
buffy: you are *not* fine. you need to go home.
scene direction: joyce angry now
joyce: screw you. i want candy!
buffy: mom!
joyce: you wanna slay stuff, and *i'm* not allowed to do anything about it. well, this is what *i* wanna do, so get off my back!
buffy: mom, please, this is...
scene direction: giles reaches for joyce
giles: oh, for god's sake.
scene direction: giles pulls her away
giles: just let your mum have the sodding candy. c'mon, joyce...
scene direction: buffy holds her mother back and points at her black jeep cherokee.
buffy: mom, look at your car. look at that dent the size of new brunswick. i did that.
scene direction: joyce can't believe her eyes. behind her giles takes a drag on his cigarette.
joyce: oh, my god.
scene direction: joyce grossed out
joyce: what was i thinking when i bought the *geek* machine?
scene direction: giles busts up laughing. buffy can't believe her response. she gives up and steps over to giles.
buffy: listen to me. you need...
scene direction: giles interrupts
giles: no, you listen to me.
scene direction: giles points at her
giles: i'm your watcher, so you do what i tell you.
scene direction: giles points at the jeep
giles: now, sod off!
scene direction: buffy grabs the cigarette from his mouth, throws it down and stomps it out.
scene direction: buffy sternly
buffy: take her home.
scene direction: she heads for the crowd. giles grabs joyce's hand and starts after her.
giles: joyce...
scene direction: buffy pushes her way through the crowd toward the loading dock. she steps up on a crate and dispatches one of the men tossing candy to the crowd by punching him in the back of the knee. he crumples and falls off of the end of the dock. buffy log rolls onto the platform and flips up to her feet. the other man throws away the box of candy bars he just grabbed, and buffy ducks, thinking that it's being thrown at her. the man tries to punch her, but she punches him in the side and then backhand punches him in the face, following up with two more punches to the gut and the face. she ducks his attempt at a punch and roundhouse kicks him in the back, knocking him into the factory wall. she grabs onto his shirt, spins halfway around and launches him off of the dock and into the air towards another wall. he hits it hard and slides to the pavement. she sees giles and her mother at the base of the dock stuffing chocolate bars into their pockets, and goes over to them.
buffy: mom!
scene direction: she grabs her by the arms and pulls her up.
joyce: hey!
scene direction: giles looks up
giles: oy! you leave her alone!
scene direction: buffy kicks in the door to the factory as giles hops up onto the dock.
scene direction: he follows buffy and joyce into the building. in the crowd snyder sees them go.
snyder: hey, brit-face! wait up!
scene direction: he scrambles to join them.
scene direction: cut inside. buffy pulls her mother into the shipping area and lets go of her.
buffy: stay.
scene direction: the place is piled to the ceiling with cases of milkbars. buffy looks around to see what she can find. across the room from the conveyor where the boxes are sealed, she sees a man on a phone, listening. he's there alone. giles and snyder come into the shipping area behind her.
snyder: it smells so chocolatey.
scene direction: buffy approaches the man on the phone.
giles: this is far out.
scene direction: the man starts talking into the phone.
ethan: yeah, i've been out there. town's wide open. you guys can go anytime.
scene direction: buffy immediately recognizes the voice and crosses her arms as she closes the distance between them.
buffy: ethan rayne.
scene direction: he turns to face her, and his eyes go wide with surprise. upon hearing the name, giles approaches him also. joyce is close behind. together the three of them make an imposing sight.
scene direction: ethan into the phone, nervously
ethan: might wanna hurry.
giles: ethan.
ethan: ripper.
scene direction: he wastes no time breaking into a fast run. buffy and giles give immediate chase. ethan runs under the inclined end of the conveyor and pulls a rack behind him to block their way, but the two of them just jump over the low end of it instead and continue the chase.
scene change: cut to the library. oz and xander are up in the stacks researching while cordelia and willow sit at the table looking through the more promising volumes.
cordelia: at first it was fun, you know? they seemed like they were in this really good mood--not like parents--and then...
willow: badness?
cordelia: mom started borrowing my clothes. there should be an age limit on lycra pants. and dad, he just locked himself in the bathroom with old copies of esquire.
scene direction: xander comes down to the table with a couple more books.
xander: i don't get this. the candy's supposed to make you feel all immature and stuff, but i've had a ton, and i don't feel any dif...
scene direction: he gets looks from the girls.
xander: never mind.
scene direction: he holds the two books out for willow to choose.
willow: i'll take that one.
scene direction: she takes hold of a book, but her thumb ends up on xander's, and they both feel the electricity between them as they allow the touch to linger longer than it needs to. they look at and then away from each other.
scene direction: willow finally pulls the book from xander's hand, and he heads back up the stairs with the other one. cordelia stares into her book while willow follows xander with her gaze.
cordelia: you wanna swap?
scene direction: willow startled
willow: what?
scene direction: willow confused
willow: swap?
cordelia: you wanna swap? this book is really thick,
scene direction: cordelia trades with willow
cordelia: and i'm not sure it's in english.
scene direction: willow goes back to her research, relieved that cordelia didn't mean boyfriends.
scene change: cut to the milkbar factory. ethan runs through the maze of cases of candy bars. he reaches the end of an aisle and turns left. buffy and giles rush to keep up. they make several twists and turns, and finally buffy comes around a corner to discover that she's lost him. behind her giles stops running, too, and breathes heavily to catch his breath.
giles: where... bloody hell!
buffy: that's what smoking will do to you. now be quiet.
giles: well... where'd the bastard go?
scene direction: buffy annoyed
buffy: shh!
scene direction: she looks around and listens carefully. she goes around a corner and stops.
giles: what?
scene direction: buffy pretends to go on, but then suddenly does a half-spinning hook kick into a crate. she yanks away a chunk of wood, reaches in and pulls ethan's head out.
buffy: look. a box full of farm-fresh chicken.
scene direction: ethan gives her a nervous smile, but it quickly fades.
scene change: cut to snyder and joyce sitting on the conveyor. they are both munching on chocolate bars.
joyce: do you suppose they're okay?
scene direction: snyder chewing
snyder: mm-hm.
scene direction: snyder keeps chewing
snyder: so...
scene direction: snyder chews
snyder: are you two kinda...
scene direction: snyder smacks his lips
snyder: like, um...
scene direction: snyder looks at her knees
snyder: goin' steady?
scene direction: joyce rolls her eyes, sighs and hops down from the conveyor to get away from him. snyder watches her go, sticks another piece of chocolate into his mouth and lets out a deep sigh.
scene change: cut to buffy confronting ethan.
buffy: so, ethan, what are we playing? we're pretty much in a talk-or- bleed situation. your call.
giles: hit him.
scene direction: buffy glares at him for an instant, then looks back at ethan.
ethan: i-i'd just like to point out that this wasn't my idea.
scene direction: giles paces behind buffy.
buffy: meaning...?
ethan: i'm subcontracting. it's trick you want. i'm just helping him collect a tribute... for a demon.
giles: he's lying. hit him!
buffy: i don't think he is, and shut up.
scene direction: giles excitedly
giles: you're *my* slayer,
scene direction: giles points at ethan
giles: go knock his teeth down his thr...
scene direction: buffy interrupts
buffy: giles!
scene direction: he turns away from her and continues pacing.
scene direction: buffy to ethan
buffy: what demon?
ethan: i don't remember.
scene direction: buffy punches him solidly in the nose. he stumbles back against the broken crate. giles jumps and swings his fist through the air.
scene direction: giles smiles
giles: yes!
scene direction: buffy gives giles a glaring look. he loses his smile.
ethan: lurconis. demon named lurconis. they wanted a way to get the tribute away from people.
buffy: so you're just diversion guy?
ethan: more than a diversion. well, they said the tribute was big, so big that people would never let them take it. that people had to be out- of-it. and later on, when the candy wore off, they'd blame themselves.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: hence, land of the irresponsible. so, where's trick?
ethan: i don't know exactly.
giles: hit him again.
scene direction: buffy holds up her fist and gives ethan a threatening look.
scene direction: ethan wards her off with his hand
ethan: no! i-i-i really don't know.
scene direction: delivering the tribute.
scene direction: buffy steps closer
buffy: which brings us to the bonus question, and believe me when i say a wrong answer will cost you *all* your points.
scene direction: behind her giles leaps up joyously with a huge smile on his face, anticipating a good fight.
buffy: what's the tribute?
scene change: cut to the maternity ward at sunnydale general hospital. the phones are ringing off the hook and all of the circuits on the switchboard at the nurse's station are flashing. the nurse just ignores it all and watches her small television. four vampires boldly enter the hall and walk right past the nurse. she doesn't even notice them. they turn down another hall, very sure of where they are headed. they reach the room where the newborns are kept and walk straight in. each of them carefully takes a crying baby from its crib. they walk out of the ward in single file, gently holding the babies in their arms.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the milkbar factory. ethan is leaning against a table while snyder crouches nearby, keeping an eye on him. buffy is on the phone with willow at the library.
buffy: right. lurconis.
scene direction: willow cut to her
willow: lurconis. a demon. what's his deal?
buffy: see if it says anything about a tribute.
willow: a tribute? like what?
scene direction: buffy cut to her
buffy: i don't know.
scene direction: buffy looks at ethan
buffy: my source is all tapped out.
scene direction: snyder to ethan
snyder: she whupped you good, huh?
scene direction: snyder throws two punches
snyder: yah! wah!
scene direction: snyder stands up proudly
snyder: i can do that. i took tae kwon do at the y.
scene direction: he goes into a series of kicks and punches, grunting with each one as he advances toward joyce, trying to impress her. she just rolls her eyes, looks away and sighs, unimpressed. snyder realizes it didn't work and leans against the wall. joyce blows a bubble with her gum.
scene direction: buffy into the phone
buffy: no, no. it's definitely a demon. a big one.
scene direction: ethan spies a crowbar on the table, and being unguarded now, reaches for it and begins to advance toward buffy. giles notices his advance. he pulls back the hammer on his stolen beretta and points it at ethan's neck.
giles: i wouldn't.
scene direction: ethan stops cold in his tracks. buffy turns around and swings the telephone receiver hard into ethan's chin. he spins down to the floor, dropping the crowbar. giles aims the gun at the back of ethan's head, execution style. buffy hands the phone to her mother.
buffy: giles, give me the gun.
scene direction: buffy holds out her hand
scene direction: he just stares at buffy and doesn't give in.
scene direction: buffy stares back
buffy: giles...
scene direction: he keeps the gun aimed right where it is. joyce talks into the phone.
scene direction: buffy sternly insistent
buffy: now.
scene direction: after another moment giles reluctantly gives up his weapon. buffy stuffs it into the back of her pants. joyce holds the phone out to buffy.
joyce: uh, it's, um, it's willow. she wants you real bad.
scene direction: buffy takes the phone
buffy: uh-huh?
scene change: cut to the library. oz points into a book that he's just brought over to willow.
scene direction: willow into the phone
willow: okay, oz just found it.
scene direction: willow reads
willow: 'the tribute to lurconis is made every thirty years.'
scene direction: willow paraphrases
willow: i-it's a ritual feeding. a-and this one's late, so it's probably, you know, a big meal.
scene direction: oz points to another paragraph.
willow: oh.
scene direction: willow reads to herself
willow: and...
scene direction: willow digests the information and recoils
willow: oh. lurconis eats babies.
scene change: cut to the factory. buffy immediately hangs up and starts to go.
buffy: come on.
scene direction: buffy takes her mother's hand
joyce: well, what about that man?
scene direction: buffy turns to see giles holding the crowbar over ethan, who is still on the floor.
buffy: uh, see if you guys can find something to tie him up with.
joyce: um...
scene direction: she reaches behind her and pulls out a set of handcuffs, dangling them from her thumb and giving her daughter a sheepish but mischievous look.
buffy: *never* tell me.
scene direction: she grabs the cuffs and heads over to ethan. joyce follows her with her gaze and smiles.
scene change: cut to sunnydale general. cut to the maternity ward. buffy holds an identification wristband left behind in one of the empty cribs. the camera pans up from her hand to joyce. giles is outside the room talking with the nurse on duty.
scene direction: nurse in the background
nurse: i didn't see anything. i don't *know* where they are.
scene direction: joyce sad and worried
joyce: something's gonna eat those babies?
scene direction: nurse in the background
nurse: what can *i* do?
snyder: i think that is so wrong.
scene direction: snyder shakes his head
scene direction: nurse in the background
nurse: get off my back about it!
scene direction: nurse stalks off shaking her head
scene direction: giles comes into the room.
giles: she says she never saw who took them. dozy cow.
buffy: i *know* who took them.
giles: well, then let's do something. let's find the demon and, and...
scene direction: kick the crap out of it.
snyder: is that what happens now?
buffy: yeah, if we knew where they were.
scene direction: buffy paces
scene direction: giles suddenly remembers a passage from a book and quotes it.
giles: 'lurconis dwells beneath the city, filth to filth.' buffy:
scene direction: giles stops pacing
giles: what?
giles: ooo!
scene direction: giles faces her
giles: i know this.
scene direction: giles tries to remember more
giles: uh... i knew this. 'lurconis' means...
scene direction: giles thinks
giles: 'glutton'. and we'll find it, um...
scene direction: giles thinks, shrugs
giles: in the sewers.
joyce: the sewers?
scene direction: joyce goes to giles for a hug
snyder: uh, good. you go do that thing with the demon, and i'll stay here in case the babies, you know, uh... find their way back.
scene direction: joyce lets go of giles
scene direction: joyce sadly
joyce: the babies must be so scared.
scene direction: giles to snyder
giles: you filthy little ponce.
scene direction: giles steps toward him and challenges
giles: are you afraid of a little demon?
snyder: if you want to splash around in the poo,
scene direction: snyder shoves giles
snyder: you're the filthy one!
scene direction: giles shoves him back.
scene direction: buffy gets between them, very annoyed
buffy: okay, you know what? everybody just stop it!
scene direction: buffy to snyder
buffy: okay, listen to me.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: i need help, okay? giles, i need grownups.
scene direction: snyder and giles continue trying to stare each other down.
buffy: these children are gonna die if we don't act now, okay, and think clearly.
scene direction: buffy gets giles' attention
buffy: there is no room for mistakes. besides which... you guys are just wigging me out.
scene direction: snyder gives in and looks away. giles gives him one last stare, and then steps back over to joyce.
giles: sorry.
joyce: we'll behave.
scene direction: the two of them hug again.
buffy: good.
scene direction: buffy to snyder
buffy: snyder, go home.
snyder: i can do that.
scene direction: snyder leaves
scene direction: buffy turns to face giles
buffy: giles, we're going to the sewers.
scene direction: she sees him kiss her mother, and she cringes.
buffy: and don't do that!
scene direction: buffy stalks out of the room
scene direction: they break off their kiss and reluctantly follow her.
scene change: cut to the sewers. the camera pans from a round storm drain tunnel into a large chamber lit by firelight from torches and candles. mayor wilkins is standing in the back to observe the ritual. he takes out his cell phone and dials his secretary. trick is nearby watching the four vampires who stole the children as they chant in latin. they are dressed in red robes, standing on the wide concrete rim of a small pool. one of them steps down with a shallow bowl of water taken from the pool and begins to anoint each of the babies with it. all but one of the babies are quiet.
scene direction: trick to himself about lurconis
trick: come on, big guy. they're not getting any fresher.
scene direction: the camera pans across the four babies. the mayor's secretary finally answers her phone.
mayor wilkins: carol. hi. yeah.
scene direction: mayor wilkins looks around the sewer
mayor wilkins: call dave on the public works committee tomorrow about sewer maintenance and repair. i have some concerns regarding exposed gas pipes, infrastructure, ventilation. and, uh... cancel my 3.
scene direction: the last two babies are anointed. suddenly buffy drops down from above through a manhole. the mayor turns his head to face her.
buffy: hi.
scene direction: she moves to start her attack. behind her giles climbs down a few rungs of the ladder and drops down the rest of the way. the robed vampires quickly move to attack them. mayor wilkins makes a hasty retreat. the first vampire swings wildly at buffy, but she ducks him, and his momentum carries him past her. she roundhouse kicks the second one and turns back to the first one and shoves him away from her. he smashes into the ladder. turning back to the second one, buffy delivers another roundhouse kick. the first one tries to kick her from behind, but she middle blocks him and roundhouse kicks him in the side. giles and joyce run over to the table with the babies and wheel it away. the mayor makes his escape down the tunnels. the third vampire does a jumping roundhouse kick, which buffy easily ducks. the second lunges at her, but she jumps into the air between them and lands behind them. the third one throws a punch at her, which she quickly middle blocks. the second one swings at her, and she ducks it and punches him in the face. she punches the third one in the face, does a half spin and hits the second one in the face with a backhand punch. he goes staggering backward into trick. buffy pulls out a stake. giles and joyce get the babies to a safe distance, where giles leaves them and goes back to the fight. trick shoves the second vampire off of him, who then goes stumbling toward giles. giles clumsily front snap kicks him in the face, and he goes flying right back into trick. the first vampire tries to attack buffy again, but she cleanly stakes him, and he bursts into ashes. she immediately takes a step to her side, back middle blocks the third one as he tries to grab her from behind and stakes him. he begins to fall to his knees and explodes into ashes. the second vampire is up again and ready to attack.
scene direction: buffy side kicks him, and he flies backward onto the rim of the pool and back rolls into the water. suddenly they all hear a deep rumbling. the vampire tries to get up out of the water. they keep listening to the rumbling as it gets louder. the vampire climbs onto a pedestal in the middle of the pool.
giles: what the hell's that?
scene direction: the vampire gets to his knees. just then a huge demon snake appears through another tunnel by the water. it sees the vampire on the pedestal, engulfs him and retreats back into the tunnel.
buffy: lurconis, i'm thinking.
trick: ordinarily, i like other people to do my fighting for me, but i just gotta see what you got.
buffy: just tell me when it hurts.
scene direction: she starts to advance on him, but giles rushes past her and pushes her back.
buffy: giles! no!
scene direction: he throws a solid left to trick's face, but he isn't fazed. he grabs giles by the shirt and throws him into the pool. trick makes a dash for it. giles starts to climb out of the water at the rim of the pool. the rumbling starts again, quicker this time. buffy looks around frantically for a way to stop the demon. she spies a gas pipe above her, and leaps up to grab it. it breaks under her weight, and gas begins to hiss out of it. giles is out of the water now and rolls over the rim of the pool and down to the floor. buffy angles the gas pipe into one of the torches, and it bursts into flames. she aims it at lurconis, and the snake demon rears back and screams in pain. joyce watches in terror. buffy waves the pipe around until lurconis is engulfed in flames. she pushes the gas pipe aside as the demon retreats back into its tunnel, screaming. above her trick smiles down through the open manhole.
trick: you and me, girl.
scene direction: trick buffy spins to face him
trick: there's hard times ahead.
scene direction: he gets up and makes himself scarce.
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: they never just leave. always gotta say something.
scene direction: joyce comes out of the shadows and over to buffy.
joyce: can we go home now?
scene direction: giles gets up, soaked to the skin.
buffy: yeah, we can go home. i've got the sats tomorrow.
joyce: oh, blow them off. i'll write you a note.
scene direction: joyce goes back to the babies
buffy: no. it's okay.
scene direction: buffy joins her mom
joyce: poor babies. come on...
scene direction: giles goes over to help as well.
scene change: cut to the mayor's office. trick is sitting while mayor wilkins paces behind him.
mayor wilkins: and your friend?
trick: paid him. the man did his job. no reason to burn that bridge.
mayor wilkins: this didn't turn out the way i had planned.
trick: where's the downside? you just got yourself one less demon you have to pay tribute to. the way i see it, i did you a favor.
scene direction: mayor wilkins smiles at trick
mayor wilkins: i guess you did.
scene direction: he puts his hands on trick's shoulders and leans in close to his ear.
mayor wilkins: in the future... i'd be *very* careful how many favors you do for me.
scene direction: he lets go of trick and steps away. trick eyes him coldly.
scene change: cut to sunnydale high the following monday. the bell rings. cut to the halls. snyder comes walking along at a quick pace. xander sees him coming.
xander: hey, snyder. heard you had some fun friday night. have you come down yet?
scene direction: behind him cordelia smiles, but tries to hide it.
snyder: that's 'principal snyder'.
xander: and that's a big 'yep'.
scene direction: snyder eyes xander, cordelia, willow and oz just standing there in the hall.
snyder: you look like four young people with too much time on your hands.
oz: not really.
cordelia: busy like a bee, actually.
scene direction: cordelia smiles
cordelia: bee-like!
snyder: good. it seems we had some vandalism friday on school property, and i was just looking for some... volunteers to help clean it up.
scene direction: they all look at the bank of lockers just down the hall. willow reads the words spray-painted in the typical lettering style of a rock band as snyder walks through the group and closes xander's locker.
willow: 'kiss rocks'? why would anyone want to kiss...
scene direction: willow gets a look from snyder
willow: oh, wait. i get it.
scene direction: snyder nods and continues on
snyder: let's get you some paint remover.
scene direction: the four of them reluctantly follow him.
scene change: cut to the front of the school. giles and buffy walk toward the street.
buffy: it was just too much to deal with. it was like nothing made sense anymore. the things that i thought i understood were gone. i just felt... so alone.
giles: was that the math or the verbal?
buffy: mostly the math.
giles: well, if you scored low, then you can take them again.
buffy: more sats?
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: is there really a point? i could die before i even apply to college.
scene direction: the brakes of joyce's jeep squeal as she pulls to a stop at the curb.
scene direction: giles and buffy take the steps down to the sidewalk.
giles: and then, you very possibly might not.
buffy: well, let's just keep hope alive.
scene direction: joyce gets out, closes her door and walks up onto the curb.
giles: hello.
scene direction: giles smiles awkwardly
scene direction: joyce shyly
joyce: hi.
scene direction: giles sees the dent
giles: i say, your car seems to have had an adventure, doesn't it?
scene direction: they all look at the severely dented rear door and back panel.
joyce: uh, buffy assures me that it happened battling evil, so i'm letting her pay for it on the installment plan.
buffy: uh, hey, the way things were going,
scene direction: buffy points at the dent
buffy: be glad that's the worst that happened. at least i got to the two of you before you actually *did* something.
scene direction: she walks around to the passenger's side to get in. giles and joyce both look at the pavement, embarrassed and not willing even to go there, but knowing that they did.
joyce: right.
giles: indeed.
joyce: y-yes.
scene direction: they both quickly pivot and head off in opposite directions 