scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: underwater. copious amounts of bubbles rise through it, some larger, some smaller, as though someone below is doing their best to hold their breath, but can't continue for much longer. the camera pans down, and there is buffy frantically trying to get to the surface. below her allan grabs her ankle and pulls her down. she kicks her legs and flails her arms, desperately trying to shake loose. eventually she manages to break free of his grip and swim to the surface. she breaks through and draws a deep breath. there, kneeling on the dock above, she sees faith, who reaches down and shoves her back underwater.
scene change: cut to buffy's room. she wakes with a start from the nightmare, and draws several deep breaths to calm herself as she realizes it was all just a dream. she sits up in bed and looks around her room. she pushes the blankets back, gets up and walks out into the hall, where she can hear the news on the tv in her mother's room.
news anchor: we go now live to our field reporter, who is standing by at the waterfront with this breaking news about the murder that has shocked the mayor and residents of sunnydale.
scene direction: buffy can see the tv from the hall. it is showing footage of the boat retrieving allan's body.
field reporter: fishermen discovered the body today, the victim of a brutal stabbing. authorities and citizens alike were shocked when the slain man was identified as deputy mayor allan finch.
scene direction: buffy can't believe that they not only found the body, but that he was also a public figure.
field reporter: still reeling from the news, mayor wilkins had this to say.
scene direction: the news cuts to the mayor at a press conference.
mayor wilkins: mr. finch was not only my longtime aide and associate, he was a close personal friend. i promise you i will not rest until whoever did this is found and brought to justice. thank you very much.
scene direction: joyce notices buffy standing behind her.
joyce: oh, honey, you're up.
scene direction: joyce turns back to the tv
joyce: oh, it's just terrible, isn't it?
scene direction: buffy doesn't know what to say or how to react.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: the sunnydale high school library. buffy is sitting on the study table and faith is sitting in a chair at the table. wesley paces. giles is sitting at the far end.
wesley: i want you to look into this. find out everything you can about the murder of the deputy mayor.
scene direction: buffy nervous and confused
buffy: but that's... i-i mean, that's... that's not really our jurisdiction, is it?
scene direction: faith eerily calm
faith: it's no big, b. we'll get into it if he wants.
giles: no, buffy's right. the deputy mayor's murder was the result of human malice. there's nothing supernatural about it.
wesley: we don't know that for certain.
scene direction: wesley brightly
wesley: i say it merits investigation.
scene direction: giles gets up, walks around the table
giles: which i'm sure the police are doing. meantime, if you ask me, there are better uses for the slayers' time.
scene direction: wesley snootily
wesley: ah. but i don't believe i did.
scene direction: wesley holds the daily paper out to him
wesley: ask you.
scene direction: giles yanks the paper away
giles: considering the success of your previous adventure...
scene direction: cordelia walks into the library. giles looks over at her.
cordelia: don't let me interrupt. wait. let me interrupt. i'm in a hurry.
scene direction: cordelia raises her eyebrows
giles: what did you need?
scene direction: wesley turns to see who has spoken, and is immediately taken by her beauty. he stares at her with his mouth agape, looking her up and down.
cordelia: uh, psych class. freud and jung. book me?
giles: happily.
scene direction: cordelia notices wesley, smiles
cordelia: check out giles: the next generation. what's your deal?
scene direction: wesley stammering nervously
wesley: uh, i, uh... well...
scene direction: wesley swallows
wesley: i'm a...
scene direction: faith is quite amused. she leans forward on the table.
faith: new watcher.
cordelia: oh.
scene direction: wesley turns to buffy, irritated
wesley: does everybody know about you?
buffy: she's a friend.
cordelia: let's not exaggerate. so...
scene direction: cordelia steps closer
cordelia: you're the new watcher.
scene direction: wesley summons his poise, holds out his hand
wesley: wesley wyndam-pryce.
scene direction: cordelia takes it
cordelia: i like a man with two last names. i'm cordelia.
scene direction: wesley smiles
wesley: and you teach psychology.
cordelia: i *take* psychology.
scene direction: giles walks behind wesley with cordelia's books.
giles: she's a student.
scene direction: wesley immediately drops cordelia's hand.
wesley: oh, well. i, uh...
scene direction: wesley swallows
wesley: yes.
scene direction: wesley squares his shoulders
wesley: in fact, i am... here to watch... girls. uh, uh, buffy and faith, to be specific.
scene direction: cordelia steps closer, smiling brightly
cordelia: well, it's about time we got some fresh blood around here.
scene direction: wesley laughs nervously
wesley: well. fresh. yes.
scene direction: at the checkout counter giles stamps the due date into the books.
giles: here we go.
scene direction: cordelia to giles
cordelia: thanks.
scene direction: cordelia to wesley
cordelia: so, welcome to sunnydale.
scene direction: she gives him a bright smile and goes to retrieve her books. on her way out she makes sure to put just the right amount of swing in her hips.
scene direction: wesley watching her back admiringly
wesley: my. she is cheeky, isn't she?
scene direction: faith still amused
faith: uh, first word: jail; second word: bait.
wesley: ahem.
scene direction: wesley pulls out his handkerchief
wesley: well, uh...
scene direction: wesley dabs his mouth
scene direction: where were we?
scene direction: buffy slips off the table
buffy: done. i mean, we were done, right?
scene direction: faith stands up
faith: uh, yep. off to patrol. so we'll see ya.
scene direction: wesley draws himself up
wesley: one moment, girls. i'm your commander now, and on the matter of this murder, i am resolved. natural or super, i want to know.
faith: fine by me. always ready to kick a little bad guy butt.
scene direction: she touches her hand to buffy's shoulder, and the two of them walk out.
scene direction: wesley smiles beatifically after them.
scene change: cut to an empty classroom. the slayers walk in. buffy pulls the door closed behind her. faith checks the other door to make sure it's closed, which it is. they meet in the center of the room.
scene direction: faith challengingly
faith: so, you gonna rat me out? is that it?
scene direction: buffy imploringly
buffy: faith, we have to tell. i can't pretend to investigate this. i can't pretend that i don't know.
scene direction: faith snidely
faith: oh, i see. but you can pretend that angel's still dead when you need to protect him.
buffy: i *am* trying to protect you. look, if-if we don't do the right thing, it's only gonna make things worse for you.
faith: worse than jail for the rest of my young life? no way!
buffy: faith, what we did was...
scene direction: faith ominously
faith: yeah. we. you were right there beside me when this whole thing went down. anything i have to answer for, you do, too. you're a part of this, b. all the way.
scene direction: faith walks out of the classroom, leaving a shocked buffy behind.
scene change: cut to the hall. buffy comes out of the classroom and walks toward the student lounge. there she sees willow sitting alone on a couch, and goes to her. willow notices her coming, glances up for an instant and takes a deep breath as she pretends to go back to her reading, apprehensive about them meeting.
buffy: hey.
willow: hey.
scene direction: willow buffy sits
willow: where's faith? i-i saw her around. figured you two were gonna go kill some more nasty stuff.
buffy: not right now. i-i, um, i think she bailed.
scene direction: they both begin to talk again simultaneously.
buffy: willow, i was won...
willow: actually, i'm...
scene direction: they both stop. buffy lets out a deep breath.
buffy: um... you go ahead.
scene direction: willow puts her book away
willow: i'm late. i-i'm meeting michael. the warlock guy? we're still trying to de-rat amy.
scene direction: buffy smiles thinly
buffy: okay.
scene direction: neither of them says anything for a long moment.
scene direction: willow evasively
willow: so see ya.
scene direction: willow gets up and goes
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: see you.
scene change: cut to the scene where allan was killed. the red and blue flashing lights of police car light bars illuminate the area. a forensic expert takes blood and fiber samples from the dumpster as another police officer holds a maglite up to it. detective stein is also there, interviewing a potential witness.
det. stein: so, uh... you heard the man scream about what time last night?
scene direction: woman worriedly
woman: oh, i'm not sure. 7:00, maybe 8:00.
det. stein: can you be more specific, say between 7:30 and 8:00?
scene direction: the camera moves through the scene and finds angel, watching from a distance. he sees the blood on the dumpster and watches as the samples are taken. he flashes back to the previous night when he saw the blood on buffy's hand.
angel: your hand.
buffy: oh. it's okay.
scene direction: he's back in the present, and continues to watch all the activity.
scene change: cut to city hall. cut to the mayor's office. he puts a sheet of paper into the shredder and listens to it whir through. he follows it with another. the camera pans up to his face. he's not a happy mayor.
mayor wilkins: it's not working.
trick: it's supposed to do something besides shred?
mayor wilkins: it's *supposed* to cheer me *up*. usually using the shredder gives me a lift. it's fun.
trick: and today you're not getting the ya-yas.
scene direction: mayor wilkins morosely
mayor wilkins: no.
scene direction: he shreds another sheet.
mayor wilkins: guess it'll take more than this to turn my frown upside down. i just *don't* understand why allan would leave such a paper trail about our dealings.
scene direction: mayor wilkins considers
mayor wilkins: do you think he was gonna betray me? oh, now, that's a horrible thought. and now he's dead, i'll never have the chance to scold him.
trick: maybe this will change your mood.
scene direction: he drops a copy of the coroner's report on the desk. the mayor picks it up and opens it.
mayor wilkins: what is it?
trick: bombshell. the deputy mayor had wooden splinters in his wound.
scene direction: struck right through the heart with a sharp, pointed object. now, word is, someone was fighting vampires not a block away from the scene. any smart money says it was a slayer who did this job.
mayor wilkins: why? do you think he talked? to them?
trick: if he did, i'm thinking he said the wrong thing.
scene direction: mayor wilkins closes the report
mayor wilkins: well, this *is* exciting. a slayer up for murder one. that's sunshine and roses to me. it really is.
scene direction: he laughs as he taps the end of the report on his desk and sets it down.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene change: city hall at night. cut to allan's office. faith and buffy break in.
scene direction: buffy closes the door behind them, checking to make sure they weren't seen. she turns on the light. they both look around the office.
scene direction: faith darkly
faith: i'm telling you, we did the world a favor.
scene direction: faith goes to his chair
faith: this guy was about as interesting as watching paint dry.
scene direction: buffy uneasily
buffy: faith...
faith: i'm joking. jeez, lighten up a little, b.
scene direction: she looks across his desk and notices a picture of him with the mayor.
scene direction: buffy goes through the papers in his inbox. faith picks up the picture and stares at it, cradling it gently.
faith: he came out of nowhere.
scene direction: buffy sympathetically
buffy: i know.
scene direction: faith annoyed
faith: whatever.
scene direction: faith puts down the picture
faith: i'm not lookin' to hug and cry and learn and grow. i'm just saying it happened quick, you know?
scene direction: she pulls open his drawer. everything inside is neat and in place. buffy starts to go through some papers lying on top of his filing cabinets.
scene direction: faith loses her patience.
faith: you know what? let's just blow. who cares what this guy was about? it's kind of moot now, don't you think?
buffy: i don't think he was in that alley by chance. i think he was looking for us. i'd like to know why.
scene direction: she opens a file drawer. it's empty.
faith: so, what, you think there's some big conspiracy?
scene direction: buffy closes the drawer and opens another. all the folders in it are also empty.
buffy: you were saying?
faith: so his papers are gone. that doesn't prove anything.
buffy: except that somebody didn't want us to prove anything.
scene direction: faith begins to get it.
scene change: cut to the hall. buffy opens the door and peeks out. the hall is clear, so she steps out into it. just then the mayor's door opens further down the hall, and mr. trick steps out. the mayor is right behind him. buffy looks back at faith, and they both scramble back into allan's office and close the door quietly. they can still hear them talking out in the hall.
mayor wilkins: get as many men on it as you can.
trick: yeah. we'll be wanting to turn up the heat.
scene change: cut to the streets. buffy and faith step off the sidewalk and into the street.
faith: so the mayor of sunnydale is a black hat. that's a shocker, huh?
buffy: actually, yeah. i didn't get the bad guy vibe off of him.
scene direction: faith exasperated
faith: when are you gonna learn, b? it doesn't matter what kind of vibe you get off a person. 'cause nine times out of ten, the face they're showing you is not the real one.
scene direction: they step up onto the opposite sidewalk.
scene direction: buffy evenly
buffy: i guess you know a lot about that.
scene direction: faith stops and faces buffy
faith: what is that supposed to mean?
buffy: it's just, look at you, faith. less than twenty-four hours ago, you killed a man. a-and now it's all zip-a-dee-doo-dah? it's not *your* real face, and i know it. look, i know what you're feeling because i'm feeling it, too.
scene direction: faith insolently
faith: do you? so fill me in 'cause i'd like to hear this.
buffy: dirty. like something sick creeped inside you and you can't get it out. and you keep hoping that it was just some nightmare, but it wasn't. and we are gonna have to figure out...
scene direction: faith interrupts
faith: is there gonna be an intermission in this?
buffy: just let me talk to giles, okay? i swear...
faith: no! we're not bringing *anybody* else into this. you gotta keep your head, b. this is all gonna blow over in a few days.
buffy: and if it doesn't?
faith: if it doesn't,
scene direction: faith shrugs
faith: they got a freighter leaving the docks at least twice a day. it ain't fancy, but it gets you gone.
scene direction: buffy in disbelief
buffy: and that's it? you just live with it? you see the dead guy in your head every day for the rest of your life?
scene direction: faith steps closer
faith: buffy, i'm not gonna *see* anything. i missed the mark last night and i'm sorry about the guy. i really am! but it happens! anyway, how many people do you think we've saved by now, thousands? and didn't you stop the world from ending? because in my book, that puts you and me in the plus column.
buffy: we help people! it doesn't mean we can do whatever we want.
faith: why not? the guy i offed was no gandhi. i mean, we just saw he was mixed up in dirty dealings.
buffy: maybe, but what if he was coming to us for help?
faith: what if he was? you're still not seeing the big picture, b. something made us different. we're warriors. we're built to kill.
buffy: to kill demons! but it does *not* mean that we get to pass judgment on people like we're better than everybody else!
faith: we *are* better!
scene direction: buffy is taken aback.
scene direction: faith exhilarated
faith: that's right, better. people need us to survive.
scene direction: in the balance, nobody's gonna cry over some random bystander who got caught in the crossfire.
scene direction: buffy sadly
buffy: i am.
scene direction: faith disdainfully
faith: well, that's your loss.
scene direction: she turns her back on buffy and walks away.
scene change: cut to buffy's house. her mother sees her coming and meets her at the door. when she opens it, buffy can see detective stein standing behind her.
joyce: buffy.
scene direction: buffy looks at him, eyes widening, remembering him from before.
scene change: cut to the living room. joyce sits in an armchair with her feet together and her hands folded in her lap, listening to the detective question her daughter. buffy sits on the couch across from her.
det. stein: tell me again. you got home at what time last night?
buffy: late. um, a-a little past 1:00, i guess.
scene direction: the camera pans around detective stein as he asks his next question, and when it moves away from his back he's talking with faith in her room.
det. stein: maybe you can explain to me what a girl your age is doing out all night.
scene direction: faith playing dumb
faith: just hanging.
det. stein: hanging. by yourself?
faith: no. i was with my friend buffy.
scene change: cut to buffy.
buffy: we were at faith's watching tv.
scene direction: joyce listens anxiously to them.
det. stein: what did you watch?
scene change: cut to faith.
faith: some old movie.
scene change: cut to buffy.
buffy: infomercial.
scene change: cut to faith.
det. stein: hmm.
scene direction: det. stein nods
det. stein: that's funny 'cause i got a couple of witnesses who put you near the alley.
scene direction: faith innocently
faith: witnesses?
scene direction: he walks around her, eyeing her suspiciously.
det. stein: somebody stabbed this guy through the heart.
scene change: cut to buffy.
det. stein: strange thing is, the weapon, it was made out of wood.
scene change: cut to faith.
det: stein: any of this mean anything to you?
scene direction: faith flippantly
faith: yeah. that whoever did it wasn't hip to the bronze age.
scene change: detective stein inhales deeply and sighs. cut to buffy.
buffy: is that it? i'm kinda beat.
det. stein: yeah, i have enough for now. buffy, if you know something, if you're protecting someone, i promise you it'll be better for everyone if you just come clean.
scene change: cut to faith.
faith: you mean am i covering for someone? hardly. i'm not the throw- myself-on-the-sword type.
scene change: cut to buffy.
scene direction: buffy politely
buffy: i wish i could help you.
det. stein: well, call me if you remember anything.
scene change: cut to faith. detective stein hands her his card. cut outside her hotel room. he pulls the door closed, takes out his keys and walks to his car.
scene direction: he opens the door, gets in and starts the engine. in the shadows beyond angel watches him. detective stein puts the car in gear and drives off.
scene change: cut to willow's room. she's at her laptop doing research. she hears a tapping at her french doors, and goes to open them. there she sees buffy looking in sadly.
buffy: hey.
willow: hey.
buffy: i need to talk to you.
willow: good.
scene direction: willow buffy comes in, closes the door
willow: 'cause i've been letting things fester.
scene direction: willow goes to her bed
willow: and i don't like it.
scene direction: willow sits
willow: i wanna be fester-free.
scene direction: buffy smiles weakly
buffy: yeah. me, too.
scene direction: willow stands up
willow: i mean, don't get me wrong. i-i completely understand why you and faith have been doing the bonding thing. you guys work together. you... you should get along.
buffy: it's more complicated than that.
willow: but, see, it's that exact thing that-that's just ticking me off! it's this whole 'slayers only' attitude. i mean, since when wouldn't i understand? you, you talk to me about *everything*. i-it's like all of a sudden i-i'm not cool enough for you because i can't kill things with my bare hands.
scene direction: buffy suddenly bursts into tears. willow is aghast at this result.
scene direction: willow regretfully
willow: oh! oh, buffy! don't cry.
scene direction: willow hugs her close
willow: i'm sorry. i-i was too hard on you.
scene direction: willow lets go
willow: sometimes i unleash. i-i don't know my own strength. i-i-it's bad. i-i-i'm bad. i'm a bad, bad, bad person.
scene direction: willow looks for forgiveness
scene direction: buffy tearfully
buffy: will, i'm in trouble.
scene change: cut to later, after they've calmed down and buffy's explained. they sit on willow's bed.
buffy: and faith acts like she doesn't even care. the way she talks, it's like she didn't even make a mistake.
scene direction: willow takes it all in
willow: do you think she's, like, i-in shock?
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i don't know. and i think that detective knows more than he's saying. i think he knew that i was lying.
scene direction: willow decisively
willow: you have to go to giles, buffy. he'll know what to do.
scene direction: buffy lets out a deep breath, knowing that her friend is right.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy comes in quietly and walks past the counter.
scene direction: buffy troubled
buffy: giles?
scene direction: she stops when she sees him come out of his office.
giles: buffy.
buffy: uh...
scene direction: buffy exhales
buffy: i don't really know how to say this, so i'm- i'm... i'm just gonna say it. i know i've kept things from you before, but...
scene direction: giles turns his head slightly as faith comes out of his office, too.
scene direction: faith gives her a steely look, like she expects buffy to keep things quiet.
scene direction: buffy fumbling
buffy: but, um, but i-i've been blowing off my classes. you know, in-in the sense of not attending. and, uh...
faith: it's okay, buffy. i told him.
scene direction: buffy surprised
buffy: you told him?
faith: i had to. he had to know what you did.
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: what i did?
scene direction: she realizes that faith has told giles a bald-faced lie.
buffy: giles, no. tha-that's just not what happened.
scene direction: giles upset
giles: i don't want to hear it, buffy.
scene direction: buffy shocked
buffy: no! it...
giles: i don't want to hear any more lies.
scene direction: buffy frantically to faith
buffy: you can't be serious! you're setting me up?
giles: get in my office, now. faith, i'll talk to you in the morning.
scene direction: buffy imploringly
buffy: giles, please, you have to...
scene direction: giles sternly
giles: now!
scene direction: buffy can't believe what's happening. faith walks around giles. buffy goes into his office. faith stops and faces him.
faith: um... sorry.
scene direction: she leaves at a brisk pace.
scene direction: giles looks down for a moment, then goes into his office. inside buffy faces him.
scene direction: buffy desperately
buffy: giles, i didn't do this. i swear. look, i know that i messed up badly, but the murder, i-it... it was...
scene direction: giles interrupts
giles: faith. i know.
scene direction: stunned, buffy realizes he was just playing faith's game.
giles: she may have many talents, buffy, but fortunately, lying is not one of them.
buffy: oh. oh, god.
scene direction: buffy sits
buffy: i thought...
giles: i'm sorry. i needed her to think that i was on her side. i don't know how far she'll take this charade.
buffy: try far. like, all the way.
giles: you should have come to me right off.
scene direction: giles sits facing her
buffy: i know. well, i, i wanted to.
giles: but faith wouldn't hear of it?
buffy: it's not all her fault, giles. we both thought it was a vampire. i-i only realized it a second before.
giles: buffy, this is not the first time something like this has happened.
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: it's not?
giles: the slayer is on the front line of a nightly war. now, it's, it's tragic, but accidents have happened.
buffy: w-what do you do?
giles: well, the council investigates, um, metes out punishment if punishment is due. but i... i have no plans to involve them. i mean, it's the last thing faith needs at the moment. she's unstable, buffy. i mean, she's utterly unable to accept responsibility.
buffy: she's freaking. so, so then we just have to help her deal, right?
giles: she's in denial. there *is* no help for her until she admits what happened.
scene direction: buffy uncertainly
buffy: i-i could talk to her.
scene direction: giles sighs
giles: perhaps.
buffy: or maybe i'm too close. maybe, maybe one of the guys could.
giles: we should meet. it-it may be that they're seeing a different side of her.
buffy: okay.
scene change: cut to the main area looking into the office. the camera pans past the window.
giles: in the meantime, no one else is to know. understood?
buffy: of course.
scene direction: the camera keeps panning until it comes to rest on wesley, who is standing by the counter, arms crossed and listening grimly.
giles: i mean, this is... extremely delicate. if we scare her off now, we may lose her forever.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: wesley's apartment. he picks up the phone and dials an international number.
wesley: yes, hello. mr. travers, please. quentin travers.
scene direction: wesley listens
scene direction: wesley wyndam-pryce calling. (listens, confused) the code word? monkey.
scene direction: (listens, exasperated) m-o-n-k... just put him on, will you? this is an emergency.
willow: well, maybe we should all talk to faith together.
scene change: cut to the cafeteria. she, buffy, xander and giles sit among the tables, which have the chairs inverted on them for the night.
buffy: you mean, like that intervention thing that you guys did on me? as i recall, xander and i nearly came to blows.
xander: uh, *you* nearly came to blows, buffy. i nearly came to loss of limbs.
giles: no, faith is too defensive for a confrontation like that. she'll respond better to a one-on-one approach.
xander: well, *i* can be the one... on her one.
scene direction: xander gets confused looks
xander: let's rephrase. i think she might listen to me. we kind of have, um, a connection.
buffy: a connection? why would you think that...
scene direction: xander interrupts
xander: i'm just saying it's worth a shot. that's all.
scene direction: buffy and willow exchange a look.
giles: no, i don't, i don't see it, xander. i mean, of, of all of us, you're the one person arguably that faith has had the least contact with.
xander: yeah, but we hung out a little... recently, and she seemed to be, um... responsive.
scene direction: willow picks up on that, and figures it out. she looks sadly off into space.
buffy: when did you guys hang out?
xander: oh, she was fighting one of those, uh, apocalypse demon things, and i helped her. gave her a ride home.
buffy: and you guys talked?
scene direction: xander shakes his head
xander: not extensively. no.
buffy: then why would you...
scene direction: buffy figures it out also, widens her eyes with surprise
buffy: oh.
scene direction: giles gets it, surprised
giles: oh!
scene direction: he and buffy both look at willow, concerned. she notices and looks up.
willow: i don't need to say 'oh'. i got it before. they slept together.
scene direction: buffy is genuinely sorry that she had to hear it like this. willow looks back off into space. a long silence follows. the tension in the air is very thick. giles finally breaks it.
giles: fine, fine, let's, let's, let's move on.
buffy: alright. look, i-i know that you mean well, xander, but, um, i-i just don't see faith opening up to you.
scene direction: buffy gently
buffy: she doesn't take the guys that she has a... 'connection' with very seriously. and they're, they're kind of a big joke to her. no offense.
scene direction: xander guffaws, sarcastically
xander: oh, no! i mean, why would i be offended by *that*?
giles: however, i-if you still want to be of assistance, i, i, i need some help with research. there's still the business of the mayor and mr. trick to attend to.
buffy: yeah, they, they seemed pretty cozy the other night.
giles: yes. uh, willow, c-c-can you, um, access the mayor's files?
scene direction: willow comes back to earth
willow: what? oh, uh, sure. i can try.
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: good, yes, because clearly we, uh,
scene direction: giles picks up his chair
giles: we need to take a harder look at him.
scene direction: giles turns it over
giles: he's, he's, um, he's obviously up to something.
scene direction: giles sets it on a table
buffy: what about faith?
scene direction: giles sighs
giles: i don't know. i need time.
buffy: she needs help now.
scene direction: buffy giles looks at her
buffy: i owe her that. cut to the girls' bathroom. the camera pulls in to a stall with its door not quite closed. "wish we never met", by kathleen wilhoite, plays over the scene.
lyrics: disappointment stops by from time to time the sound of sobbing is coming from inside the stall. cut inside. willow sits there crying her eyes out.
lyrics: to see how i'm doing / and he came by last night right after you left / my life in ruin cut to the library. xander sits on the steps to the stack level, staring off into space and tapping his fingers.
lyrics: when i don't get what i want cut to faith's room. she's lying on her bed, idly watching tv.
lyrics: the spoiled child inside breaks down she hears a knock at her door. she rolls off her bed and goes to answer it. it's xander.
scene direction: faith bored
faith: what?
scene direction: xander awkwardly
xander: i just, uh, came by to see how you are, actually.
scene direction: faith with hostility
faith: i'm sick of people asking me that, for one thing.
scene direction: a long moment of silence ensues.
xander: can i come in? just to talk. i promise.
scene direction: faith skeptical
faith: like you could make something happen if i didn't want it to?
xander: hey, yeah. got me there. pretty much not gonna try to... take you under any circumstances.
scene direction: xander holds out his arm
xander: see, here, feel that.
scene direction: xander points to his biceps
xander: probably like a wet noodle to you, huh?
scene direction: faith steps aside
faith: five minutes.
xander: that's all i need.
scene direction: xander comes in
xander: for talking and conversation.
scene direction: xander faith closes the door
xander: i'm, um, quick as a bunny.
scene direction: faith turns off the tv
faith: clock is running.
xander: it's just, uh... i heard about what happened, and i thought you might need a friend.
faith: so then, go talk to buffy. she's the one who killed a guy.
xander: yeah. i heard that version.
scene direction: faith not amused
faith: version?
scene direction: xander sighs
xander: either way, i-it sounds like it was an accident, and that's the important part.
scene direction: faith angrily
faith: no, the important part is that buffy is the
scene direction: faith makes finger quotes
faith: accidental murderer.
xander: faith, you may not think so, but i sort of know you. and i've seen you post-battle. and i know firsthand that you're, um... like a wild thing. and half the time, you don't know what you're doing.
scene direction: faith snidely
faith: and you're living proof of that, aren't you?
xander: see, you're trying to hurt me. but right now, you need someone on your side. what happened wasn't your fault. and i'm willing to testify to that in court if you need me.
faith: you'd dig that, wouldn't you?
scene direction: faith gives him a sexy look
faith: to get up in front of all your geek pals and go on record about how i made you my boy toy for a night.
xander: no. n-n-n-n-no, that's not it.
faith: *i* know what this is all about.
scene direction: faith steps closer
faith: you just came by here
scene direction: faith runs her fingertips all around his face
faith: 'cause you want another taste, don't you?
xander: no! i mean, it was nice. it was great. it was kind of a blur.
scene direction: but, okay, some day, sure, yay, but not now. not like this.
scene direction: faith grabs hold of his head
faith: more like how then? lights on or off?
scene direction: kinks or vanilla?
scene direction: xander jerks away
xander: faith, come on. i came here to help you.
scene direction: xander looks her in the eyes
xander: i thought we had a connection.
scene direction: faith can't help but think that's funny and laughs at his gullibility.
scene direction: she grabs him by his shirt front, shoves him onto the bed and jumps on top of him.
scene direction: faith excitedly
faith: you wanna feel a connection? it's just skin.
scene direction: faith opens his shirt
faith: i see... i want... i take.
scene direction: faith kisses him hard
faith: i forget.
scene direction: she keeps moving above him and rubbing his chest and shoulders.
scene direction: xander nervously
xander: no. no, wait. it was more than that.
faith: i could do anything to you right now, and you want me to. i can make you scream.
scene direction: she licks her tongue over and around his face and returns to his lips, and kisses him forcefully, seizing his lower lip between her teeth and pulling at it.
scene direction: faith breathlessly
faith: i could make you die.
scene direction: she kisses him again and gets her hand around his neck. when she pulls away from his lips, he's choking. she kisses him once more, and then rises above him, never letting up on her chokehold. xander reaches up with one hand to try to push her away and tries to pry her hand from his neck with his other hand, but doesn't have anywhere near the strength necessary to do so. faith has both hands tight around his neck now, and squeezes hard. he begins to lose consciousness. a few moments more and he's passed out. faith hears a noise behind her and looks over just in time to be knocked unconscious by angel.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. faith is chained to the fireplace mantle. she rubs her wrists.
faith: finally decided to tie me up, huh? i always knew you weren't really a one-slayer guy.
scene direction: angel plays with a bat
angel: i'm sorry about the chains. it's not that i don't trust you... actually, it *is* that i don't trust you.
scene direction: angel sets the bat aside
faith: the thing with xander; i know what it looked like, but we were just playing.
scene direction: angel evenly
angel: and he forgot the safety word.
scene direction: angel gets up
angel: is that it?
scene direction: angel walks over to her
faith: safety words are for wusses.
scene direction: angel crouches before her
angel: i bet you're not big on trust games, now, are you, faith?
faith: you gonna shrink me now? is that it?
angel: no, i just wanna talk to you.
faith: that's what they all say. and then it's just, 'lemme stay the night. won't try anything.' angel: you wanna go the long way around, hey, i can do that.
scene direction: faith stands up
faith: i'm not getting any older.
scene direction: he turns his back on her and walks out into the atrium. buffy waits there, and stands up when she sees him.
buffy: how's she doing?
angel: it's like talking to a wall. only you get more from a wall.
buffy: but you'll keep trying, right?
angel: sure. we're just getting started.
buffy: so, what do i do?
angel: look, right now, there's nothing that you can do.
buffy: well, this could take awhile, right?
scene direction: buffy goes to the stairs
buffy: so, i'll just go to faith's and i'll get some of her stuff. that way she'll see that we're on her side.
angel: that's a good idea.
buffy: okay.
scene direction: buffy glances at faith
buffy: i'll be back.
angel: look, i... i don't want you to get your hopes up, buffy. she may not want us to help her.
buffy: she does. she just doesn't know how to say it.
angel: she killed a man. that changes everything for her.
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: giles said with counseling, they might not even need to lock her up.
angel: that's not what i mean. she's taken a life.
buffy: i know.
angel: she's got a taste for it now.
scene change: cut to the mayor's office. he and trick are reviewing a security camera tape. on it they see buffy and faith enter allan's office.
mayor wilkins: not one slayer, but two. right here in the building.
trick: there was supposed to be a guard.
mayor wilkins: sh. here comes my favorite part.
scene direction: mayor wilkins they see them hide in allan's office
mayor wilkins: where the slayers see us in the hall together, thick as thieves. oh, wait, we are thieves. and worse. and now they know it.
trick: well, they're not gonna be much of a threat in jail.
mayor wilkins: well, we don't have near enough evidence to put 'em away.
scene direction: on the tape he and trick walk out of the building.
mayor wilkins: no, you're gonna have to come up with a more *efficient* solution. and mr. trick, you better think of it soon.
scene direction: they watch the tape where the two slayers leave the office after they've gone.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. he paces past faith.
angel: i know what's goin' on with you.
faith: join the club. everybody seems to have a theory.
angel: hmm.
scene direction: angel faces her
angel: but i know what it's like to take a life. to feel a future, a world of possibilities, snuffed out by your own hand. i know the power in it. the exhilaration. it was like a drug for me.
scene direction: faith looks up at him, sarcastically
faith: yeah? sounds like you need some help. a professional maybe.
angel: hmm.
scene direction: angel goes to the coffee table
angel: a professional couldn't have helped me.
scene direction: angel sits on it
angel: it stopped when i got my soul back. my human heart.
faith: goody for you. if we're gonna party, let's get on with it.
scene direction: faith holds out her wrists
faith: otherwise, could you let me out of these things?
angel: faith, you have a choice. you've tasted something few ever do.
scene direction: angel stands up, paces
angel: i mean, to kill without remorse is to feel like a god.
scene direction: faith struggles angrily
faith: right now, all i feel is a cramp in my wrist,
scene direction: faith yanks at the chains impatiently
faith: so let me go!
scene direction: angel crouches
angel: but you're not a god. you're not much more than a child. going down this path will ruin you. you can't imagine the price for true evil.
faith: yeah?
scene direction: faith sneering
faith: i hope evil takes mastercard.
scene direction: angel smiles
angel: you and me, faith,
scene direction: angel straightens up
angel: we're a lot alike. time was, i thought humans existed just to hurt each other.
scene direction: angel sits next to her
angel: but then i came here. and i found out that there are other types of people. people who genuinely wanted to do right.
scene direction: angel looks at her
angel: and they make mistakes. and they fall down. you know, but they keep caring.
scene direction: keep trying. if you can trust us, faith, this can all change. you don't have to disappear into the darkness.
scene direction: suddenly there is a loud pounding on the door. it is broken in, and wesley strides straight toward them, holding a large cross and flanked by three others. angel rushes to head them off, but has to step back from wesley, who nervously holds the cross in his face. one of his cronies blindsides angel with a right hook, and he falls to the floor.
scene direction: another quickly throws a net over him, and the third starts to beat him with a crowbar while the others tie angel up. wesley goes over to faith and removes the shackles from her wrists. while she rubs them and watches angel get whaled on, wesley pulls out a set of heavy cuffs and chains, and before she knows it her wrists are bound once again.
scene direction: faith confused
faith: what?
wesley: by the order of the watcher's council of britain...
scene direction: wesley lifts her up
wesley: i am exercising my authority and removing you to england,
scene direction: wesley guides her out
wesley: where you will accept the judgment of the disciplinary committee.
scene direction: one of the men helps hold faith, and they all leave the mansion, leaving angel behind entangled in a mass of net and rope.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the streets of sunnydale. a stepvan drives down a boulevard. cut inside.
scene direction: faith is chained to a bench on one side. wesley and one of his men sit on the bench opposite her.
wesley: i'm sorry for the extreme measures. unfortunately, this is a rather extreme circumstance.
faith: whatever.
wesley: please believe nobody is rushing to judgment. the first priority of both myself and the council is to help you.
scene direction: faith pulls at the ring holding her to the bench.
wesley: ah, now, none of that.
scene direction: wesley to his crony
wesley: tighten her restraints.
scene direction: faith, there's no point in fighting this.
scene direction: faith kicks the man in the knee, and he falls to the floor. she presses down on his face with her boot.
faith: have to disagree with you on that one. now unlock these or i'll pop this guy's head like a grape.
scene direction: wesley hesitates, then spies a wrench on the floor. faith sees it, too.
faith: don't even think about it.
scene direction: she holds up her cuffed wrists for him to unlock. he gives in, stands up, pulls the keys from his pocket and steps over to set her free.
wesley: faith, you can't keep running.
scene direction: she punches him hard in the jaw, and he falls onto the wrench. he grabs it and tries to swing at her with it, but she grabs his wrist.
faith: wrong again, wes.
scene direction: she grabs his jacket with her other hand and headbutts him hard. he falls down unconscious. she goes to the doors, kicks them open and jumps out onto the street. she rolls a few times before coming to a stop and watches the van drive away. she looks around to get her bearings and makes her getaway.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. buffy arrives with some of faith's things. once inside she notices that faith is gone, and then sees angel still struggling to get out of the ropes. she rushes over to help him out.
scene change: cut to the library. giles, willow and xander are all there with buffy and angel.
angel: it was the new watcher. he had a couple of guys helping him.
willow: then he figured it out?
giles: which means that faith will be soon on her way back to england to face the watcher's council.
buffy: and then what?
giles: most likely they'll lock her away for a good long while.
buffy: so we head them off at the airport and stop them.
willow: can i... i-i'm just wondering. why?
scene direction: willow gets a look from buffy
willow: i'm not the most objective, i know. i kind of have an issue with faith sharing my people.
scene direction: willow looks at xander, who closes his eyes
willow: but she murdered someone and accused buffy. then she hurt xander. i hate to say it, but maybe she belongs behind bars.
scene direction: giles thinks about that.
buffy: she's out of control, i know. but angel was getting somewhere with her. she was opening up. if we could just stop wesley.
scene direction: wesley walks into the library.
wesley: that's no longer an issue.
giles: you let her get away?
wesley: 'let' wouldn't be the way i'd phrase it, but... yes, she escaped.
scene direction: giles rolls his eyes and takes off his glasses.
angel: that's good work.
scene direction: angel walks across the room
angel: first, you terrorize her, then you put her back in the streets.
scene direction: angel sits on the table
wesley: that was hardly my plan. i was trying to save her.
scene direction: buffy accusingly
buffy: but you didn't! you probably destroyed her.
scene direction: giles interrupts quietly
giles: buffy, that's enough.
scene direction: giles puts his glasses back on
buffy: i better find her before she does any more damage.
scene direction: buffy stands up
buffy: we're gonna need to split up. i'll check the docks. that's probably where she is. giles, why don't you go to her motel? xander, willow, her haunts and be careful.
scene direction: they all get up to leave.
angel: i'll try the airport.
scene direction: angel goes
scene direction: everyone walks past wesley on their way out.
wesley: what can i do? i want to help.
scene direction: buffy resentfully
buffy: you still got your ticket back to the mother country?
scene direction: she follows the others out, leaving him standing there alone.
scene change: cut to the docks. the camera closes in on an old, rusty cargo ship and across to the dock. buffy walks along it watching for faith. she passes underneath the gangplank and stops when she hears faith behind her.
faith: you don't give up, do you?
scene direction: she's on the ship at the top of the gangplank.
buffy: not on my friends, no.
faith: yeah, because you and me are such solid buds, right?
scene direction: faith walks down the gangplank
buffy: we could be. it's not too late.
scene direction: faith disgusted
faith: for me to change and be more like you, you mean?
scene direction: little miss goody-two-shoes? (stops halfway, leans on the railing) it ain't gonna happen, b.
buffy: faith, nobody is asking you to be like me, but you can't go on like this.
scene direction: faith grins evilly
faith: scares you, doesn't it?
scene direction: she climbs over the railing and hops down to the dock.
buffy: yeah, it scares me. faith, you're hurting people. you're hurting yourself.
scene direction: faith approaches buffy
faith: but that's not it. that's not what bothers you so much. what bugs you is you know i'm right. you know in your gut we don't need the law. we *are* the law.
buffy: no.
scene direction: she turns her back and walks away. faith follows right behind.
faith: yes. you know exactly what i'm about 'cause you have it in you, too.
buffy: no, faith, you're sick.
faith: i've seen it, b. you've got the lust. and i'm not just talking about screwing vampires.
scene direction: buffy stops in her tracks.
buffy: don't you *dare* bring him into this.
scene direction: faith taunting her
faith: it was good, wasn't it? the sex? the danger? bet a part of you even dug him when he went psycho.
buffy: no!
scene direction: buffy continues walking
scene direction: faith follows
faith: see, you need me to toe the line because you're afraid you'll go over it, aren't you, b? you can't handle watching me living my own way, having a blast, because it tempts you! you know it could be you!
scene direction: buffy has had enough. she stops, faces her and backhand punches her in the jaw. faith comes up smiling wickedly.
faith: there's my girl.
scene direction: buffy tries to get away
buffy: no. i'm not gonna do this.
scene direction: faith doesn't let her go
faith: why not? it feels good. blood rising.
scene direction: buffy hears a noise above, looks up and notices a palette of crates above them, falling directly at faith. she shoves her out of the way, but gets struck herself and goes down. she is dazed, but not out.
scene direction: faith gets up and goes to help buffy, when mr. trick and three other vampires suddenly attack. faith spins around when she hears them roar, but is soundly punched in the face by trick, forcing her body to snap to the side. he and another one grab her by her jacket and throw her to the ground. as faith tries to get to her feet, the second vampire roundhouse kicks her in the face. she blocks it and drops a bit, but manages to get up and block an uppercut from the third one by grabbing his hand. she backhand punches him in the face, making him step back to keep his balance, and turns to face the second vampire. she high blocks a wide swing from him and punches him, making him fall, but the third one behind her flat hands her in the back and she stumbles.
scene direction: buffy starts to come out of her daze.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: oh, god...
scene direction: the third vampire holds faith with her arms behind her back. she tries to get free by snapping her heel backwards and striking his kneecap.
scene direction: that has no effect, so she snaps her head back and butts him dead in the nose, but the vamp still doesn't let go of her. the second vampire launches into a half spinning hook kick intended for faith, but she ducks it and the demon holding her takes the blow, lets go of her and goes down. faith flies into full spinning, jumping out-to-in crescent kick, hitting the second vampire hard in the face and sending him spinning to the ground. the first vampire runs at her, but she sidesteps him and shoves him into the third, who was just getting up. he isn't knocked down, though, and comes at her. she grabs him and pulls him with her toward the water, and throws him off the dock.
scene direction: buffy is out of her daze now, and with difficulty pulls her legs out from under the pallet of crates that fell on her. she gets to her feet, but is immediately punched by mr. trick. she falls spinning onto the crates and rolls off onto the concrete. she gets to her feet as trick approaches and tries to backhand punch him, but he middle blocks it, so she punches him in the gut instead. her jab is weak, though, and has no effect on him. trick does a painful right hook to her face. buffy stumbles backward. trick advances and swings again, this time snapping her head back with a powerful uppercut, making her fall onto another pile of crates.
scene direction: faith does a half-spinning hook kick, connecting with the second vampire's jaw. he falls onto an open barrel and struggles not to fall in. the first one comes at her again, but she has her stake out now and jams it home. he explodes into ashes. she looks over and sees buffy struggling with mr. trick. he wraps a cord around her neck and begins to choke her. but faith isn't finished with her fight yet. the second vampire throws off the barrel, only to become intimate with her stake and burst into ashes.
scene direction: faith sees trick yank at the cord around buffy's neck and pull her off of the crates. he pulls her up and swings her around into a pallet leaning against still more crates. she hits it hard and falls to the pavement. faith looks around, trying to decide what to do. she sees trick pick buffy up again and slam her against the huge crates. buffy struggles to get loose, but the cord around her neck is too tight.
trick: i hear once you've tasted a slayer, you never wanna go back.
scene direction: he opens his fang-filled mouth wide and moves in for the bite. buffy struggles to keep him away, but can't. suddenly mr. trick stops and looks up in wide-eyed shock.
trick: oh, no.
scene direction: trick shakes his head
trick: no, this is no good at all.
scene direction: he begins to fall and explodes into ashes as faith pulls her stake back.
scene direction: the two slayers look at each other uncertainly for a long while. faith lowers her stake. buffy massages her neck.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy sits at the table while giles pours her some coffee from his thermos.
giles: so she saved you.
scene direction: giles walks slowly around the table
buffy: she could have left me there to die, giles, but she didn't.
giles: she opted to come back to town with you. that... that bodes well.
scene direction: giles sits
giles: she still has a lot to face before she can put this behind her.
buffy: i'm not gonna give up on her.
scene direction: giles pours himself a cup
giles: then i think she stands a chance.
scene change: cut to the mayor's office. he pulls on his overcoat, getting ready to leave for the night. he looks down at his desk and adjusts the angle of the penholder, gives a satisfied nod, picks up his briefcase and heads for the door. when he opens it he is surprised to see faith standing there, arms crossed.
scene direction: faith accusingly
faith: you sent your boy to kill me.
scene direction: mayor wilkins unfazed
mayor wilkins: that's right, i did.
faith: he's dust.
mayor wilkins: i thought he might be. what with you standing here and all.
scene direction: faith steps brazenly into the doorway
faith: i guess that means you have a job opening.
scene direction: the mayor steps back to let her enter and closes the door 