scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: dublin, ireland, 1838. it's christmastime, and there is snow on the ground. the people in the streets are all dressed in warm cloaks. a carriage goes by. behind it a very worried-looking young man hurries along the street. he constantly looks back to see if he's being followed. he passes a choir group singing "silent night", but pays them no mind. in a more crowded area he pushes his way through the people, eliciting a few comments on his rudeness. suddenly a pair of arms reach out from an alleyway, pull him in and throw him to the snow-covered cobblestones. he looks up to see who his aggressor is, and finds angelus standing over him, sporting his game face.
angelus: daniel. where were you going?
scene direction: daniel afraid
daniel: you! you're not human.
scene direction: angelus agreeably
angelus: not of late, no.
scene direction: daniel begs
daniel: wh-what do you want?
angelus: well, it happens that i'm hungry, daniel, and seeing as that you're somewhat in me debt...
scene direction: daniel frightened
daniel: please, i can't!
angelus: a man playing at cards should have a natural intelligence or a great deal of money, and you're sadly lacking in both.
scene direction: daniel tries to get up and flee, but angelus grabs him by the coat and roars.
angelus: so i take me winnings me own way.
scene direction: daniel looking up, terrified
daniel: the lord is my shepherd. i shall not want. he maketh me to lie down in green pastures...
scene direction: angelus interrupts
angelus: daniel, be of good cheer. it's christmas!
scene direction: he bites him violently on the neck.
scene change: cut to angel's bedroom. he wakes from his dream with a start, and after realizing it was only a dream, he sits up in bed.
scene change: cut to a sunnydale shopping district. in the window of an audio/video store a tv is tuned to the weather.
weatherman: it's going to be sunny and warm with temperatures continuing in the high 70s
scene direction: weatherman about 25c
weatherman: throughout the holiday weekend.
scene direction: just a little warm to light the yule log, but it should make for a very nice christmas.
scene direction: angel walks past the shop window at a brisk pace and crosses the street.
scene direction: somewhere on the block is a group of carolers singing "god rest ye merry gentlemen". angel passes a santa claus ringing a bell and collecting for the salvation army. a passerby drops some coins into his pot.
santa: merry christmas!
scene direction: angel stops short when he unexpectedly runs into buffy. they are both surprised, and don't say anything for a moment. angel breaks the silence.
angel: hi.
buffy: angel...
scene direction: another awkward silence sets in for a while.
buffy: so, are you shopping?
scene direction: buffy realizes how silly that sounds
buffy: you're probably not shopping.
angel: i couldn't sleep.
buffy: vampires probably not that big on christmas, now that i think about it.
angel: not as a rule.
buffy: but you're good?
angel: i'm, i'm alright. you?
buffy: yeah!
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: yeah, i'm good. i, um,
scene direction: buffy looks down at the boxes she's carrying
buffy: i was just getting some christmas gifts for the gang.
scene direction: angel's attention is diverted to behind buffy. in the middle of the street he sees an apparition of daniel looking sadly back at him.
buffy: um, i'd better go before the magic store closes.
scene direction: angel and daniel exchange a long look, then daniel walks away. buffy notices angel's distraction.
buffy: angel?
scene direction: she looks behind herself and sees nothing, then turns her concerned attention back to angel.
buffy: what is it?
scene direction: angel is frozen with fear.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: sunnydale high school. the bell rings, and students begin to pour out of the classrooms into the halls. buffy, willow and xander come out of one and head over to the girls' lockers.
buffy: and then he just bailed. he didn't say anything. he just took off. it was so weird.
scene direction: the girls both work their locker combinations.
xander: angel? weird? what are the odds?
scene direction: xander gets a look from buffy
willow: do you think something's wrong? maybe you should tell giles.
scene direction: they both open their lockers and get what they need.
buffy: no. i don't wanna bug giles. he's still kinda twitchy when it comes to the subject of angel.
scene direction: she takes off her jacket and hangs it in her locker.
xander: well, it must be that whole angel-killed-his-girlfriend-and- tortured-him thing. hey, giles is pretty petty when it comes to stuff like that.
scene direction: buffy takes a paper bag from her locker and then closes the door.
buffy: xander, enough, okay?
scene direction: willow zips up her book bag and closes her locker as well. they all start down the hall.
willow: maybe angel just has the holiday blues. everybody gets 'em.
scene direction: especially when they're alone.
buffy: it's just so frustrating. i'm trying to do the right thing and stay away from him and get over it, and then *boom*, there he is. i just want a nice, quiet christmas vacation.
scene change: cut to the student lounge. a christmas tree is set up there. the gang comes out of an adjacent hall and heads into the lounge.
xander: so, you doing anything special?
buffy: tree. nog. roast beast. just me and mom and hopefully an excess of gifts. what are you doing for christmas?
willow: being jewish. remember, people? not everybody worships santa.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: i just meant for vacation.
willow: mm. nothing fun.
scene direction: they take the steps up to the couches.
willow: oz and i had planned... but i guess that's off.
scene direction: cordelia is sitting on one of the couches with a friend. xander is instantly nervous. buffy takes her bag over to the holiday food drive collection box behind the couches and starts pulling cans of food out of her bag and putting them in the box. willow and xander sit on the couch opposite cordelia.
scene direction: xander with false heartiness
xander: well, i'll be enjoying my annual christmas eve camp-out. see, i take my sleeping bag outside and i go to sleep on the grass.
scene direction: cordelia and her friend stand up. her friend steps over to the stairs and waits, while cordelia hangs around to add her point of view.
willow: sounds fun.
xander: yeah, i like to look at the stars, you know? feel the whole nature vibe.
scene direction: cordelia smiling smugly
cordelia: i thought you slept outside to avoid your family's drunken christmas fights.
scene direction: xander gives her a look like he expected no less from her.
xander: yes. and that was a confidence i was hoping you would share with everyone.
scene direction: xander smiles sarcastically
scene direction: buffy joins the group again.
cordelia: well, i'll be in aspen. skiing. with actual snow.
buffy: i hear that helps.
cordelia: it must be a drag to be stuck here in sweatydale, but i'm thinking of you. okay, i'm done.
scene direction: she leaves wearing a shark smile, well-satisfied with her results.
buffy: she certainly has reverted to form.
willow: it's not her fault. mm, after what happened, we gotta cut her some slack.
xander: that's the christmas spirit.
willow: hello, still jewish. chanukah spirit, i believe that was?
scene direction: anyway, forgiveness is pretty much a big theme with me this year, 'cause of the...
scene direction: she stops when she sees oz come up to the group. oz glances over at xander, who is suddenly quite uncomfortable. oz turns his attention to willow.
oz: hey.
willow: hey.
scene direction: willow looks at him hopefully
scene change: cut to an empty classroom. willow sits on one end of the teacher's desk while oz leans against the other and looks blankly out into the room.
oz: okay. the thing is... seeing you with xander, it was... well, i never felt that way before... when it wasn't a full moon... but i know you guys have a history.
willow: but it's a history that's in the past. well, i-i guess most history is in the past. but it's over.
oz: well, i don't know. i don't know that it... ever will be between you two.
scene direction: willow imploringly
willow: oz, please believe me.
scene direction: oz looks at her
oz: this is what i do know: i miss you. like, every second. almost like i lost an arm, or worse, a torso. so, i think i'd be willing to... give it a shot.
scene direction: willow stands up and smiles tentatively
willow: really?
scene direction: oz stands up and smiles
oz: yeah.
scene direction: willow smiles more warmly.
willow: do you want us to... to hug now?
scene direction: willow looks at him hopefully
scene direction: oz smiles
oz: yeah, i'm good for that.
scene direction: they step closer to each other and hug tightly, oz with one arm around her back and the other gently caressing her head, while willow holds onto him as tightly as she can, enfolding him in her arms.
scene change: cut to a christmas tree lot. buffy and her mother walk through trying to find the right one. other shoppers are also selecting trees.
shopper: take the other one, then.
scene direction: off to one side the tree merchant is spraying fake snow onto a tree.
scene direction: joyce looks over one of the snowed trees.
joyce: do you wanna get one with snow on it? be very christmasy.
scene direction: they continue through the tree lot.
buffy: i think those are just for display.
joyce: oh. you know, honey, i was thinking. maybe we should invite faith to spend christmas eve with us.
buffy: i don't know. faith and i don't really hang out. or talk or make eye contact lately.
scene direction: joyce looks over another tree
joyce: do you really wanna let her spend christmas eve all by herself in that dingy little motel room?
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: you're still number one with a guilt trip, mom.
joyce: i try.
scene direction: buffy gives in
buffy: i'll ask her.
joyce: you're a doll.
buffy: what about giles? i mean, he doesn't have any fam...
scene direction: joyce interrupts
joyce: no, i'm sure he's fine.
buffy: we could at least ask him and see...
joyce: he doesn't wanna spend christmas eve with a bunch of girls.
scene direction: joyce takes a deep breath
joyce: let's split up.
scene direction: she goes off to her right. buffy sighs and continues looking. she notices an area where a bunch of the trees are all brown, and walks over to them for a closer look. the tree merchant comes up to her.
tree merchant: bunch of them up and died on us. don't know why. if you want one, i can make you a hell of a deal.
buffy: no, thank you.
scene direction: joyce from a distance
joyce: oh, honey, this one's perfect!
scene direction: buffy goes to see what her mother has found.
scene change: cut to another dream sequence. images of a fire and burning candles float around. the image of a round table with candles at its center and ritualistic artifacts arranged to form three spokes upon it, all surrounded by a circle, appears. three chanting figures are sitting round the table, their palms placed flat upon the table's rim, as if using a ouija board. the table and figures float by several times.
scene direction: suddenly the view angles up from the table and into the face of one of the three figures. it has no eyes, but instead has runes branded in the flesh where eyes should be.
scene change: cut to angel's bedroom. he wakes with a gasp, frightened and breathing hard. again he realizes it's only a dream, and rubs his head with his hands.
scene change: cut to faith's motel. cut inside her room. she's struggling with the tv, slapping and shaking it to try to get some reception, but gets nothing.
scene direction: there is a knock at her door.
faith: yeah?
scene direction: buffy opens the door and comes in.
faith: hey, what's up?
scene direction: faith to the tv
faith: work, damn it!
scene direction: buffy closes the door
buffy: hey.
scene direction: faith gives up and turns off the tv. she stands up and faces buffy.
faith: what's going on? scary monsters?
buffy: no. um,
scene direction: buffy steps further in
buffy: we're having christmas eve dinner at my house, and i thought that, um, if you didn't have plans...
scene direction: faith smiles sharply
faith: your mom sent you down, huh?
scene direction: buffy taken aback
buffy: no.
faith: well, thanks, but i got plans. there's this big party i've been invited to. it should be a blast.
scene direction: faith smiles evasively
scene direction: buffy unconvinced
buffy: okay. cool. but if you change your mind, the offer...
faith: that's nice of you. thanks. but i got... i got that big party that i've been invited to, so...
scene direction: faith smiles dismayingly
scene direction: buffy steps toward the door, but looks around and notices the christmas lights that faith has strung up around the room.
scene direction: buffy quietly approving
buffy: i like the lights.
faith: yeah. well, 'tis the season. whatever that means.
scene change: cut to giles' kitchen. he's cooking dinner, and takes a taste. there's a knocking at his door.
giles: just a minute!
scene direction: he goes to the door, opens it and is surprised to see angel standing there. for a long moment neither of them says anything.
giles: hello.
angel: um... i'm sorry to bother you.
scene direction: giles finds himself unable to keep from laughing bitterly.
giles: sorry. coming from you that phrase strikes me as rather funny. 'sorry to bother me.' angel: i need your help.
scene direction: giles straight-faced
giles: and the funny keeps on coming.
scene direction: angel swallowing his pride
angel: i understand i have no right to ask for it, but there's no one else.
giles: alright.
scene direction: he walks back into the apartment and tosses his kitchen towel onto the counter. he heads down the hall.
angel: i... i can't come in unless you invite me.
scene direction: giles returns from the hall, holding a crossbow and raising it at the ready.
giles: i'm aware of that.
scene direction: he walks back to the door.
giles: come in.
scene direction: slowly and not without reservation angel steps into the apartment.
scene direction: giles' aim does not waver.
angel: i've been seeing...
scene direction: angel distracted
angel: i've... i've had dreams lately about the past. it's... it's like i'm living it again. it's, it's so vivid, i... i need to know.
scene direction: angel pleading
angel: i need to know why i'm here.
giles: here? back on earth?
angel: i should be in a demon dimension suffering an eternity of torture.
giles: i don't feel particularly inclined to argue with that.
angel: but i'm not. i was freed, and i don't understand why.
giles: knowing why you were back would give you peace of mind?
angel: it might.
scene direction: giles decides it's probably okay to put down his weapon, and bends to his side to set the crossbow down. behind him angel sees an apparition of jenny calendar.
giles: you think that's something you ought to have?
scene direction: jenny looks at angel sadly. angel begins to shiver with fear.
giles: because, sir, to be blunt, the last time you became complacent about your existence turned out rather badly.
scene direction: angel sees jenny stroke her hand down giles' shoulder and sigh. giles doesn't notice a thing. angel begins to pant with short rapid breaths.
scene direction: giles notices the look of fear on his face focused behind him.
giles: what?
scene direction: he looks around his apartment, completely unaware of jenny's presence.
angel: don't you see her?
scene direction: he sees jenny walk around giles.
giles: who?
scene direction: angel begins to make his way to the door. jenny follows him with her stare. he begins to freak out.
angel: i can't!
scene direction: he runs out of the door into the night. giles is left standing there very confused.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. cut to his bedroom. he sleeps fitfully. suddenly his dream flashes back to dublin again at a dinner party. the affair is very formal. the camera moves through the house while the guests converse. at the stairs the camera angles up to follow a woman as she climbs them while two other guests come down. the camera angles back down and underneath, where angelus is talking with a maid.
scene direction: margaret nervous
margaret: sir, please, i should return to the party.
angelus: margaret, margaret, there's no hurry.
scene direction: margaret trying to pull away
margaret: mistress will be wondering...
angelus: shh. mistress will be wondering how to get the good reverend chalmers into bed and will not notice the absence of canape'.
scene direction: angelus strokes her chin
angelus: stay with me.
scene direction: margaret worried
margaret: sir, people might talk. i'll be put out in the streets. my little boy would... i can't lose this job.
scene direction: angelus grabs her firmly
angelus: then you must keep quiet.
margaret: you're hurting me!
angelus: ah! cry out. call for help. i'm sure mistress will believe your behavior beyond reproach.
scene direction: angelus sneers
margaret: please!
scene direction: angelus shakes her
angelus: come, make a scene, huh? shall *i*?
scene direction: margaret thinks better of it
margaret: no.
angelus: no, no. we'll be as quiet as mice.
scene direction: margaret looks down, defeated, having no choice but to give in. when she looks back up at him he's in his vampire guise.
angelus: no matter what.
scene direction: margaret terrified
margaret: sir! my son!
angelus: oh, he'll make a fine dessert, huh?
scene direction: she gasps as he grabs her roughly and bites her. he drinks her dry, and lets her body collapse to the floor. when he looks up he is shocked to see a witness to his deed - buffy. she stares back at him, also in shock.
scene change: cut to angel's bedroom. he wakes with a sudden jerk and gasps.
scene change: cut to buffy's bedroom. she awakens with a startled twist of her head and stares into the darkness of her room, surprised and confused.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: angel's mansion. unable to sleep, he walks out of a hall into the main room, pulling on a t-shirt. there standing at the opposite end of the room by the doorway to the atrium is jenny.
scene direction: jenny with false sympathy
jenny: trouble sleeping?
angel: you're not here.
scene direction: jenny slowly comes closer
jenny: i'm always here.
angel: leave me alone.
scene direction: he sits down on the cold marble on one side of the great fireplace.
jenny: i can't. you won't let me.
angel: what do you want?
jenny: i wanna die in bed surrounded by fat grandchildren, but guess that's off the menu.
scene direction: angel can't face her
angel: i'm sorry.
jenny: you're sorry? for me? don't bother. i'm dead. i'm over it.
scene direction: jenny crouches down next to him
jenny: if you wanna feel sorry for someone, you should feel sorry for yourself. oh, but i guess you've already got that covered.
angel: i am sorry... for what i've done. what else can i say to you?
scene direction: she puts her hand to his temple and strokes it. with her next sentence she transforms to the likeness of daniel.
daniel: i don't wanna make you feel bad.
daniel: i just want to show you who you are.
scene change: cut to giles' office at the library.
giles: you had a dream about angel.
buffy: i was *in* angel's dream.
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses
giles: i'm not sure that's...
buffy: giles, there was stuff in this dream that i couldn't possibly know about. it was angel's past, he was dreaming it, and somehow i got sucked in.
scene direction: giles looks up at buffy.
buffy: there's something wrong with him.
scene direction: he looks down, then draws and releases a measured breath.
giles: i know. i've seen him. he wanted to know why he was back.
buffy: is there a way for us to find that out?
giles: uh, possibly. i-i've been looking.
scene direction: giles puts his glasses back on
buffy: well, let me look, too.
scene direction: giles gives her an inquiring glance. buffy speaks with an in-your-face honesty, meeting giles' coldly appraising eyes with her own steady gaze.
buffy: i'm not seeing him anymore. i'm trying to put all this behind me, and i'm not gonna be able to as long as we're both doing guest spots in each other's dreams.
scene direction: giles leans back in his chair and considers the truth of that.
buffy: so we'll help him?
scene direction: giles realizes he has no choice
giles: yes.
scene direction: xander walks into the office
xander: where do we start?
scene direction: he gets surprised looks from giles and buffy.
scene direction: xander abashed
xander: look, i'm aware i haven't been the mostest best friend to you when it comes to the whole angel thing, and, um, i don't know, maybe i finally got the chanukah spirit.
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: well, we start, not surprisingly, with research.
scene direction: giles goes to a small bookcase
giles: xander, um,
scene direction: giles hands him a book
giles: the black chronicles. and, uh, buffy,
scene direction: giles hands her a book
giles: the diary of lucious temple, an acolyte of acathla, expert on demons. you can skip the passages on his garden unless you're keen on growing heartier beets.
scene direction: buffy and xander head out into the main room.
buffy: are you sure this is how you wanna spend your christmas vacation?
xander: yeah, this is actually the most exciting thing i've got planned. who else can claim that pathetic a social life?
scene direction: willow walks in smiling
willow: hey, guys. what are we doing?
scene change: cut to later. the three of them are all at the center table doing research. giles drops off a few more books for them to look through.
scene change: dissolve to them having a discussion using the whiteboard. dissolve to xander arriving with a pizza and dropping it on the table. dissolve to more researching with the pizza half-eaten. dissolve to later with just willow and buffy at the table.
willow: he's gonna come over on christmas eve 'cause my parents are out of town. we're gonna watch videos.
buffy: that's good, right?
scene direction: buffy they exchange a look
buffy: you guys are back.
willow: it's good. it's perfect. in an awkward, uncomfortable sort of way.
scene direction: willow buffy gives her a sympathetic look
willow: i just don't know how to make oz trust me.
buffy: xander has a piece of you that oz just can't touch. i guess now it's just about showing oz that he comes first.
scene direction: willow considers that
willow: i guess. thanks.
scene direction: willow reads
willow: hey, he likes beets.
buffy: i read that one already.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: we're not getting any closer.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. he falls to the floor, clammy, shivering, and panting in horror. another one of his victims, a businessman, paces past him.
businessman: the thing i remember most was thinking how artful it was. in the dark, they looked just like they were sleeping. it wasn't until i bent down and kissed them good night that i felt how cold they were. you grabbed me, and i thought,
scene direction: businessman faces angel
businessman: who would go to so much trouble to arrange them like that?
scene direction: angel looks up at him. the businessman crouches and transforms into margaret.
margaret: but you see, that's what makes you different than other beasts. they kill to feed, but you took more kinds of pleasure in it than any creature that walks or crawls.
angel: oh, god!
scene direction: margaret mocking him
margaret: yeah, cry out. make a scene.
scene direction: angel jumps to his feet and tries to run away, but finds daniel standing in his way.
daniel: i was to be married that week, but then, as i recall, you knew that.
angel: it wasn't me.
scene direction: daniel transforms into jenny.
jenny: it wasn't you?
angel: a demon isn't a man. i was a man once.
scene direction: jenny derisively
jenny: oh, yes, and what a man you were.
scene direction: angel is forced to flash back to the days before he became a vampire, in a bar, singing and drinking, pulling at a woman's dress before passing out and falling to the floor. the flashback is over, and margaret is standing before him again.
margaret: a drunken, whoring layabout, and a terrible disappointment to your parents.
angel: i was young. i never had a chance to...
margaret: to die of syphilis? you were a worthless being before you were *ever* a monster.
scene direction: angel can't take much more, and he holds his hands to his ears.
angel: stop it! stop...
scene direction: margaret transforms to jenny, and she puts her hands on his, gently taking them away from his ears.
jenny: i don't wanna hurt you, angel, but you have to understand. cruelty's the only thing you ever had a true talent for.
angel: that's not true.
jenny: shh.
scene direction: jenny leads him to the coffee table
jenny: rest.
scene direction: jenny gently gets him to lie down
jenny: rest.
scene direction: jenny walks around him
jenny: you mistake it for a curse, angel, but it's not. it's your destiny.
scene direction: she sits down by his head and strokes his hair.
jenny: i'll show you. i'll show you.
scene change: dissolve to sunnydale high. cut to the library. xander yawns in his chair behind the checkout counter and goes back to researching his book.
scene change: the camera pans over to the window to giles's office. willow is asleep in a chair. giles gets up from his desk to get another book. dissolve to the stacks. the camera moves into them to a sleeping buffy, with several books lying on the floor around her. she rolls from her side onto her back.
scene change: dissolve to angel's mansion. he rolls over onto his back also. in a flash of bright light they are both sharing a dream. buffy is lying in her bed, and she slowly opens her eyes. angel is sitting at her side, looking down at her, waiting for her to awaken. he reaches for buffy's hand with his. they touch fingertips briefly before intertwining their fingers and clasping hands.
scene direction: next buffy is facing angel, sitting on his lap with her legs circling round his waist. they are kissing passionately, holding each other as closely as possible, caressing each other tenderly. buffy tugs at angel's shirt, and he helps her pull it up and off, baring his chest. in the real world angel turns again on the coffee table.
scene direction: now it is angel's turn to slip the satin pajama top from buffy's shoulders. they hold each other tightly as they kiss longer and more intensely. in the real world buffy moans and turns her head while lying on the library floor.
scene direction: buffy and angel are lying in bed together, making gentle passionate love. they change positions as angel rolls on top of her, the muscles of his back flexing under his tattoo. they caress each other for several moments. angel tenderly kisses buffy where her neck joins her shoulder, and he slides his hand up and along her outstretched arm, reaching and clasping her hand as they continue making love. suddenly, over angel's shoulder, buffy sees the eyeless priest from her previous dream, sightlessly observing them from where he's standing at her door.
scene direction: there are several sudden flashes of light. angel removes his hands from their tender clasp and then, as a thunderclap is heard, grabs buffy's wrists hard, forcibly pinning her down to the bed. he rises over her and transforms into his vampire guise, and then bites her savagely on the neck.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy wakes in startled shock.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. he wakes and sits bolt upright, drawing a hard breath. jenny is still sitting next to him.
jenny: you want her?
scene direction: angel panting
angel: no.
scene direction: jenny insistently
jenny: take her. take what you want. pour all that frustration and all that guilt into *her*, and you'll be free.
angel: no.
jenny: you can't live for eternity with *all that pain*. this is what you are. this is why we brought you back. take her! and then you'll be ready...
scene direction: jenny moves in to his ear
jenny: ...to kill her.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the library. buffy walks out of the stacks and down the stairs.
giles: here, buffy. take a look.
scene direction: he goes to the table with a pile of very old and worn sheets of paper.
giles: these letters contain references to a, a, an ancient power known as the first.
buffy: first what?
giles: evil. absolute evil, older than man, than demons. it could have had the power to bring angel back.
buffy: these guys,
scene direction: buffy picks up one of the letters with sketches of the eyeless priest
buffy: i-i saw them in my dream. i, i fell asleep up there.
giles: you had another dream? with angel?
scene direction: giles buffy nods
giles: what happened?
scene direction: buffy evasively
buffy: oh, we don't need to get sidetracked. who are these guys?
giles: um, they're known as the, uh,
scene direction: giles sits
giles: as the bringers o-o-or harbingers. they're high priests of the first. they, uh, they can conjure spirit manifestations and set them on people, influence them, haunt them.
buffy: these are the guys working the mojo on angel?
scene direction: xander comes out from behind the counter.
xander: we gotta stop them.
giles: y-you can't fight the first, buffy. it's not a-a physical being.
buffy: well, i-i can fight these priest guys.
xander: if we can find them.
scene change: cut to willy's bar. he's wiping down a few bottles and putting them away when he sees buffy and xander enter the bar.
scene direction: willy loudly so everyone hears
willy: hey! it's the slayer. what brings the, uh, slayer down here?
scene direction: several vampires at the bar get up and quietly leave.
scene direction: buffy goes up to the bar
buffy: hey, willy, how you been?
scene direction: willy pours a drink for a customer
willy: keeping out of trouble, as god is my witness.
scene direction: willy comes over to them
willy: so, w-what can i do for you? couple of drinks?
xander: yeah. let me get a double shot of, um...
scene direction: xander exchanges a look with buffy
scene direction: xander aggressively to willy
xander: of information, pal.
buffy: three priests. they call themselves...
scene direction: xander interrupts
xander: the bringers.
scene direction: buffy shoots xander a look
buffy: bringers, harbingers. they have a 'no eyes' kinda look.
willy: doesn't ring a bell.
scene direction: xander menacingly
xander: how about i ring that bell for you?
scene direction: xander hopefully to buffy
xander: does the threatening come now?
buffy: maybe you shouldn't help.
scene direction: buffy to willy
buffy: they would've come to town recently. they'd be holed up somewhere summoning the spirit of the first.
scene direction: willy looks around the bar carefully, then leans in toward them.
willy: well... i heard a few things, you know, from the underground.
xander: the underground?
willy: yeah, you know. from things that live under the ground.
scene direction: apparently there's been a lot of migration out of sunnydale from the lower inhabitants. something's scaring them off, and these are things that aren't easily scared. could be your priest guys are underground.
buffy: underground where?
scene direction: willy regretfully
willy: i do not know.
buffy: okay. thanks.
xander: see you around.
scene direction: they start to leave the bar.
scene direction: willy to xander
willy: hey.
scene direction: willy xander faces him
willy: you did great, by the way. i was very intimidated by you.
xander: really?
scene direction: xander smiles
scene direction: willy gives him a nod.
scene direction: xander smiles widely
xander: thanks!
scene direction: buffy takes xander's arm
buffy: let's go.
scene direction: buffy leads him away
willy: hey, kid.
scene direction: willy buffy faces him
willy: merry christmas.
scene direction: buffy just gives him a look, and then she and xander leave.
scene direction: cut outside. they step into the heat of the day and start down the block.
xander: man, is it hot. it was so nice and cool in there.
buffy: yeah, a nice cool waste of time.
scene direction: they stop walking.
xander: we know underground. that's a start.
buffy: sure, in a town with fourteen million square miles of sewer.
xander: plus a lot of natural cave formations and a gateway to hell.
scene direction: yeah, this does resemble square one.
buffy: i don't know what to do.
xander: i think right now the best plan is to deck the halls with boughs of holly. look, we'll catch the bad guys... sooner or later.
scene change: cut to willow's house. oz comes in.
oz: willow?
scene direction: oz closes the door
oz: i got videos.
scene direction: oz holds them up
scene direction: when he sees the living room, he stops in his tracks. willow has the room softly lit, with a small fire going in the fireplace, candles burning on the coffee table, and soft music playing on the stereo. she is sitting on the sofa, dressed nicely just for him.
willow: hi.
scene direction: willow pats the sofa next to her
willow: why don't you come s-sit down?
scene direction: after a moment's hesitation, he walks into the room and sits down next to her. he set the videos on the table. on the stereo "can't get enough of your love, babe", by barry white, begins to play.
lyrics: i've heard people say that oz isn't sure what to make of this, and looks at willow. she smiles back at him.
lyrics: too much of anything is not good for you, baby oz: you ever have that dream where you're in a play, and it's the middle of the play and you really don't know your lines, and you kinda don't know the plot?
willow: well, we're alone, and we're together. i-i just wanted it to be special.
oz: how special are we talking?
scene direction: willow a bit nervous
willow: well, you know, we're alone, and we're both mature younger people, and, and so... w-we could... i-i'm ready to... w- with you.
scene direction: willow whispers
willow: we could do that thing.
scene direction: oz looks at her in disbelief. willow smiles back. oz has to stand up.
willow: where are you going?
oz: no, i'm not going. just a dramatic gesture. that's, that's pretty special.
scene direction: willow stands also
willow: oz, i-i wanna be with you. first.
oz: i think we should sit down again.
scene direction: they sit stiffly.
willow: oz?
scene direction: he looks at her, worry evident in his expression.
willow: i-i'm ready.
oz: okay. well, don't take this the wrong way... but i'm not.
scene direction: willow confused
willow: are you scared? 'cause i thought you had...
scene direction: oz shyly
oz: no, i have, but this is different. i mean, you look great. you know, and, and you got the barry working for you, and, and it's all... good. but when it happens... i want it to be because we both need it to for the same reason. you don't have to prove anything to me.
willow: i just wanted you to know.
oz: i know.
scene direction: oz smiles
oz: i get the message.
scene direction: willow leans over to him, and they kiss.
scene change: cut to the summers house. christmas music plays in the background. buffy puts the finishing touches on the tree. joyce places another log on the fire. she stands up and inspects the result.
joyce: there we go.
buffy: nothing like a roaring fire to keep away the blistering heat.
joyce: oh, come on. it's lovely. maybe i should turn the air conditioning on.
scene direction: buffy is off in her own world as she finishes trimming the tree.
joyce: so, angel's on top again?
scene direction: buffy startled
buffy: what?
scene direction: joyce holds up an angel and a star
joyce: angel or star?
buffy: oh, uh... star. star.
scene direction: the doorbell rings. buffy and her mom exchange an inquiring look, wondering whom it could be. buffy goes to the door and opens it.
scene direction: faith uncertainly
faith: hey.
buffy: hi!
faith: uh, looked like that whole party thing was gonna be kind of a drag.
scene direction: faith drops her eyes for an instant
faith: i didn't really have anything... you know.
scene direction: buffy sincerely
buffy: i'm glad you came.
scene direction: faith smiles
faith: uh... here.
scene direction: faith hands buffy gifts
buffy: why don't you come in from the entire lack of cold?
faith: mm.
scene direction: she steps in, and buffy closes the door.
faith: uh, that one
scene direction: faith points
faith: is for your mom. they're pretty crappy.
joyce: faith, you made it.
scene direction: joyce takes the gifts from buffy
joyce: oh, that is so thoughtful.
scene direction: faith smiles, embarrassed
faith: they're crappy.
buffy: you know, i'm gonna go upstairs and get your gifts. excuse me.
joyce: uh, would you like some nog?
scene direction: cut upstairs. buffy walks down the hall and into her room.
buffy: okay, mom, don't touch yours, though, 'cause then you're gonna know what it is.
scene direction: once in her room she hears her door slam behind her. she spins around to find angel there. he looks very tired and somewhat disoriented.
buffy: angel.
angel: huh... buffy.
buffy: what is it?
scene direction: he looks around apprehensively and clears his throat.
angel: i gotta... i... look, i, uh, i had to see you, um...
scene direction: he sees her bed, and it confuses him.
angel: i don't know, i... you shouldn't be...
buffy: just tell me what's going on.
scene direction: his gaze focuses on her neck, and he notices she's not wearing her cross. jenny appears to him behind her.
jenny: she wants you to touch her. what are you waiting for?
angel: you have to stay away from me.
scene direction: buffy bewildered
buffy: you came to see me to tell me that i can't see you?
scene direction: angel pants heavily and struggles hard with himself for control.
buffy: angel, something is doing this to you.
scene direction: he starts to move toward her. she backs away.
scene direction: buffy worried and frightened
buffy: you just have to control it, okay? i-i know that you're confused.
angel: i think you're the one who's confused. i think you need to...
jenny: she wants you to taste her. think of the peace. you'll never have to see us again.
scene direction: angel struggles for control of his mind. he grabs his hair with his hands in desperation.
scene direction: buffy imploringly
buffy: angel, how can i help you?
angel: leave me alone!
scene direction: he runs toward her window and dives out. buffy is in shock over it all.
scene direction: cut downstairs. buffy hurriedly talks with faith as she's grabbing her coat before leaving.
buffy: i just need you to stay with mom in case he comes back.
scene direction: buffy makes strides for the door
faith: yeah, i'll play watchdog. i don't really get it, though.
buffy: i'll explain later. everything. i promise.
scene direction: opens the door and leaves.
scene direction: faith concerned
faith: watch your back.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment.
buffy: giles, we have to do something. soon. now.
giles: i'm still not sure what.
scene direction: buffy desperate
buffy: find me these priest guys. find me something i can pummel.
giles: let's not lose our heads.
buffy: giles, he's slipping.
scene direction: giles has no response to that.
scene direction: buffy voice faltering
buffy: i think we're losing him.
giles: look...
scene direction: giles puts on his glasses
giles: you realize if he... truly becomes a danger, you may have to kill him. again. can you do that?
scene direction: buffy can't bring herself to answer.
scene change: cut to the atrium at angel's mansion. he tries to get away from jenny and goes into the mansion.
angel: i can't do it.
jenny: you have to do it.
scene direction: jenny tauntingly
jenny: what else are you good for?
scene direction: angel panting hard
angel: get away from me!
scene direction: jenny appears behind him
jenny: couldn't you just... feel her?
scene direction: jenny leans close to him
jenny: couldn't you almost smell her skin? you never were a fighter, angel, don't start trying now.
scene direction: jenny steps away
jenny: sooner or later you will drink her.
angel: i'll never hurt her.
jenny: you were born to hurt her.
scene direction: jenny scornfully
jenny: have you learned nothing? as long as you are alive...
scene direction: angel flatly
angel: then i'll die.
scene direction: jenny pauses to consider
jenny: you don't have the strength to kill yourself.
angel: i don't need strength. i just need the sun to rise.
scene direction: he walks back out into the atrium.
jenny: you're not supposed to die. this isn't the plan.
scene direction: she watches him walk through the atrium and take the steps up and out.
jenny: but it'll do.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: giles' apartment. buffy reads aloud from a book. behind her giles sits on the stairs and reads to himself from another.
buffy: 'a child shall be born of man and goat and have two heads, and the first shall speak only in riddles...' no wonder you like this stuff.
scene direction: buffy closes the book
buffy: it's like reading the sun.
scene direction: giles finds something
giles: yes. ah.
scene direction: buffy looks up at him
buffy: priests?
giles: um... yes, but, uh, more, more posturing, i'm afraid. um,
scene direction: giles reads
giles: 'for they are the harbingers of death. nothing shall grow above or below them. no seed shall flower, neither in man nor...'
scene direction: giles gestures that it goes on and on
giles: they're rebels and they'll never ever be any good. nothing specific about their haunts.
buffy: let me see that.
scene direction: giles hands her the book.
scene direction: buffy reads
buffy: '...the harbingers of death. nothing shall grow above or below...' she is suddenly lost in thought.
giles: what?
scene change: cut to the christmas tree lot. buffy kicks open the gate and marches straight toward the dead trees. once there she studies them for a moment. the camera lifts straight up, looking down at the six trees that have died arranged in a circle. all the trees around them are fine.
scene change: cut to buffy at ground level. she looks around for something to dig with and finds a long-handled ax. she swings it at the ground, and after a couple of hits she breaks through. a few more swings and the hole is large enough for her to get through. she crouches down and drops herself into it.
scene direction: cut below. buffy drops down into a cave. there are groups of candles burning here and there. she cautiously looks around and starts to make her way deeper into the cave. she can hear chanting coming from nearby.
scene direction: she doesn't have to go far before she finds the table with the priests sitting around it.
buffy: alright, ten more minutes of chanting and then you guys have to go to bed.
scene direction: the priests get up, and buffy jumps down to fight them. she swings the handle of her ax into one priest's stomach, and he goes down. she swings it into another one, who doubles over. she follows up with another swing to his head, and he goes down, too. the third one runs away. buffy uses the ax to destroy the arrangement of artifacts on the table. the next thing she knows, jenny is in the cave with her.
the first [jenny]: hmm. i'm impressed.
scene direction: buffy hesitates at first, surprised to see jenny there, but quickly realizes that it's not really her.
scene direction: buffy defiantly
buffy: you won't get angel.
the first [jenny]: hmm. you think you can fight me? i'm not a demon, little girl. i am something that you can't even conceive. the first evil. beyond sin, beyond death. i am the thing the darkness fears. you'll never see me, but i am everywhere. every being, every thought, every drop of hate.
scene direction: buffy loses her patience
buffy: alright, i get it. you're evil. do we have to chat about it all day?
scene direction: the first [jenny] unimpressed
the first [jenny]: angel will be dead by sunrise. your christmas... will be his wake.
buffy: no.
the first [jenny]: you have no idea what you're dealing with.
scene direction: buffy dripping with sarcasm
buffy: lemme guess. is it... evil?
scene direction: the apparition of jenny shrinks and is replaced for an instant by an image of a huge horned and clawed beast coming at her, roaring and with eyes glowing red. it fades as quickly as it appeared. buffy stares in shock at the place where it appeared. it screams a final warning.
the first: dead by sunrise!
scene direction: buffy runs from the cave, terrified for angel's life.
scene change: cut to angel's mansion. buffy runs in.
buffy: angel!
scene change: she looks around, but he's nowhere to be seen. she walks toward the doorway to the atrium and looks out. she sees the steps leading up and runs toward them. cut to the hills behind the mansion. buffy runs through the bushes, frantically looking for angel. she climbs further up the hill and finds him standing at the top looking out over a peaceful residential area of town.
buffy: angel.
scene direction: he hears her say his name and briefly glances in her direction before looking back out over the rooftops. buffy slowly walks over to him.
angel: i bet half the kids down there are already awake. lying in their beds... sneaking downstairs... waiting for day.
scene direction: buffy out of breath
buffy: angel, please. i need for you to get inside. th- there's only a few minutes left.
angel: i know. i can smell the sunrise long before it comes.
scene direction: buffy anxiously and hurried
buffy: i don't have time to explain this. you just have to trust me. that thing that was haunting you...
scene direction: angel interrupts
angel: it wasn't haunting me. it was showing me.
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: showing you?
angel: what i am.
scene direction: buffy insistently
buffy: were.
angel: and ever shall be. i wanted to know why i was back. now i do.
buffy: you *don't* know. some great evil takes credit for bringing you back and you buy it? you just give up?
scene direction: angel harshly
angel: i can't do it again, buffy. i can't become a killer.
buffy: then fight it.
angel: it's too hard.
scene direction: buffy desperately
buffy: angel, please, you *have* to get inside.
angel: it told me to kill you. you were in the dream. you know. it told me to lose my soul in you and become a monster again.
buffy: i know what it told you. what does it matter?
scene direction: angel raises his voice
angel: because i wanted to! because i want you so badly! i want to take comfort in you, and i know it'll cost me my soul, and a part of me doesn't care.
scene direction: he sobs. buffy is at a loss for words.
angel: look, i'm weak. i've never been anything else. it's not the demon in me that needs killing, buffy. it's the man.
buffy: you're weak. everybody is. everybody fails. maybe this evil did bring you back, but if it did, it's because it needs you. and that means that you can hurt it.
scene direction: angel doesn't want to believe her.
scene direction: buffy pleadingly
buffy: angel, you have the power to do real good, to make amends.
scene direction: buffy raises her voice
buffy: but if you die now, then all that you ever were was a monster.
scene direction: she looks out at the sky as it begins to lighten.
scene direction: buffy begging frantically
buffy: angel, please, the sun is coming up!
angel: just go.
buffy: i won't!
angel: what, do you think this is simple? you think there's an easy answer? you can never understand what i've done! now go!
buffy: you are not staying here.
scene direction: buffy grabs his arm
buffy: i won't let you!
angel: i said leave!
scene direction: he jerks his arm free of her grasp. in her anger and desperation buffy punches him. he reacts by shoving her away from him roughly, making her fall face forward, hard to the ground.
scene direction: angel quietly to himself
angel: oh, my god...
scene direction: he goes to her and crouches over her, grabbing her by the shoulders and turning her around to face him. buffy fears his intentions and cries out.
buffy: no! no!
scene direction: he grabs her roughly by the arms and holds her firmly.
angel: am i a thing worth saving, huh?
scene direction: angel shakes her
angel: am i a righteous man?
scene direction: angel shakes her
angel: the world wants me gone!
scene direction: buffy tearfully
buffy: what about me? i love you so much... and i tried to make you go away... i killed you and it didn't help.
scene direction: she shoves him off of her and gets up.
scene direction: buffy crying
buffy: and i hate it! i hate that it's *so* hard... and that you can hurt me *so* much.
scene direction: buffy sobs, then harshly
buffy: i know everything that you did, because you did it to me. oh, god! i wish that i wished you dead. i don't.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: i can't.
scene direction: angel gets up now, too.
angel: buffy, please. just this once... let me be strong.
buffy: strong is fighting! it's hard, and it's painful, and it's every day. it's what we have to do. and we can do it together.
scene direction: angel struggles with himself, knowing she's right.
scene direction: buffy resolvedly
buffy: but if you're too much of a coward for that, then burn. if i can't convince you that you belong in this world, then i don't know what can. but do *not* expect me to watch. and *don't* expect me to mourn for you, because...
scene change: she stops in mid-sentence because it has inexplicably begun to snow. she and angel both look up at it coming down, lightly at first and gradually heavier. the camera pulls up above them and shows them standing there with the snowflakes swirling around them in the gentle morning breeze, and the ground around them starting to become white. cut to angel, looking around in amazement. buffy walks to the edge of the hill and looks out at the town as the roofs on the houses below also start to become white. she turns to angel, and they look at each other, stunned by this apparent miracle.
scene change: cut to willow and oz in her bedroom. they notice the snow outside and sit up on her bed. willow is first to get up and walk to her balcony door to look out. oz is right behind. they smile as they see it come down and notice the glass of her french doors begin to frost.
scene change: cut to the summers house. about an inch and a half (4cm) of snow has now collected on the roof. the camera pans down to the door. faith opens it, and she and joyce come out to watch it fall. faith steps off the porch and lets a few flakes fall on her open hands and face. joyce pulls her wrap tightly around her against the cold.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he notices that his window has become frosted, and goes over to it to have a look outside. he stares out in amazement.
scene change: cut to xander lying in his sleeping bag in his backyard. the light from his lantern glows blue. his unfinished dinner plate is covered with snow, as is a comic book he had put aside before retiring. he is sleeping with the top flap of his sleeping bag folded open under his arm. he stirs slightly and wipes at the snowflakes falling on his face.
scene direction: that doesn't help, so he reflexively pulls the flap closed over his head, fallen snow and all. this wakes him up, and a moment later he pushes back the flap and looks up in wonder at the falling snow.
scene change: cut to the shopping district. the camera pans from the green neon sign of the sun cinema down to where the movies now playing are listed. the weatherman can be heard on the tv in the window of the audio/video store.
weatherman: and while most of southern california is enjoying a balmy christmas, an extreme cold front has sprung up out of nowhere around sunnydale, where they are reporting heavy snowfall for the first time in, well, ever.
scene change: cut to the weatherman on tv. the camera pans from him out into the street.
weatherman: sunnydale residents shouldn't expect to see the sun at all today. that cold front isn't going anywhere. with temperatures in the high 30s
scene direction: weatherman about 3c
weatherman:  means you better bundle up if you're planning to go outside and enjoy the change in the weather.
scene change: cut to a view of the trees in the street aglow with christmas lights.
scene direction: the camera pans down into the street, which is deserted except for buffy and angel, who walk along hand-in-hand, still looking up at the snow as it comes down.
scene change: cut to a view from above. the street and a few parked cars are covered with about two inches (5cm) of snow. the camera sinks down below a traffic light. buffy and angel continue walking in silence down the street.
scene change: cut to a close-up of them walking. buffy looks over at angel. he looks exhausted but at peace. he notices her gaze and smiles at her. together they walk out of view 