scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: a dark chapel. dozens of candles on several tall iron candle holders are standing around the chamber. an altar stands at one end. upon it sits the high demon d'hoffryn. kneeling before him on a small rug is anya, she who was anyanka, once demon but now doomed to be mortal, pleading her case.
scene direction: d'hoffryn resolutely
d'hoffryn: do not ask again.
scene direction: anya shocked
anya: but... but i...
scene direction: d'hoffryn sternly interrupts
d'hoffryn: your powers were a gift of the lower beings. you have proved unworthy of them.
anya: i was robbed of them.
d'hoffryn: by your carelessness.
scene direction: anya dramatically
anya: for a thousand years i wielded the powers of the wish. i brought ruin to the heads of unfaithful men. i brought forth destruction and chaos for the pleasure of the lower beings. i was feared and worshipped across the mortal globe.
scene direction: anya disgustedly
anya: and now i'm stuck at sunnydale high.
scene direction: anya despondently
anya: mortal. child. and i'm flunking math.
scene direction: d'hoffryn dismissively
d'hoffryn: this is no concern of ours. you will live out your mortal life and die.
scene direction: anya pleadingly
anya: give me another chance. you can fold the fabric of time. send me back to that place and i'll change it. i won't fail again.
d'hoffryn: your time is passed.
scene direction: anya desperately
anya: do you have any idea how boring twelfth graders are?
scene direction: anya stands up
anya: i'm getting my power center back.
scene direction: anya defiantly
anya: and if you won't help me, then, by the pestilent gods, i will find someone who will!
scene change: cut to sunnydale high. willow is lying on a grassy area, concentrating hard. soon a pencil floats up into view and starts to slowly turn end over end. willow smiles at her successful levitation. beside her, buffy does sit-ups.
buffy: the watcher council shrink is heavy into tests. he's got tests for everything. t.a.t.s, rorschach, associative logic...
scene direction: buffy grunts and sits up
buffy: he even has that test to see if you're crazy that asks if you ever hear voices or you ever wanted to be a florist.
scene direction: willow looks over at buffy
willow: ooo, i used to want...
scene direction: willow reconsiders
willow: wait. florist means crazy, right?
scene direction: willow turns back to her pencil
willow: i never wanted to do that.
scene direction: buffy does some stretching exercises while she watches the pencil as well.
scene direction: buffy smiles, impressed
buffy: neat.
scene direction: willow grins
willow: thanks. it's all about emotional control. plus, obviously, magic.
scene direction: willow looks at buffy, giddily
willow: hey, you wanna go to the espresso pump and get sugared up on mochas?
buffy: i'm gonna pass. hit the pool and do some laps.
scene direction: willow bewildered
willow: how come the sudden calisthenics? aren't you sort of naturally buff, buff?
scene direction: willow smiles and giggles
willow: buff buff.
buffy: well, they've got us running around on the physical side, too. a lot of reflex evaluation and precision training, you know. i-i just... well, i-i wanna do...
scene direction: willow smiles knowingly
willow: better than faith?
scene direction: buffy embarrassed
buffy: so very shallow.
scene direction: willow sits up
willow: competition is natural and healthy. plus, you'll definitely ace her on the psych tests. just don't mark the box that says, 'i sometimes like to kill people.' buffy:
scene direction: willow ruefully
willow: i know faith's not gonna be on the cover of sanity fair, but... she had it rough. different circumstances, that could be me.
scene direction: willow shakes her head
willow: no way. some people just don't have that in them.
scene direction: buffy apologetically
buffy: look, i'm sorry. i-i know how you hate talking about faith.
willow: no, it's okay.
buffy: no, really, we should just...
scene direction: buffy glances at the pencil
willow: no. i-it doesn't bother me. i mean it.
scene direction: buffy notices the pencil
buffy: uh, will?
scene direction: willow looks at it
willow: oh.
scene direction: the pencil is spinning wildly. an instant later it darts off and buries itself deeply into a tree. willow gives buffy a concerned look.
buffy: emotional control?
scene direction: willow abashed
willow: i'm working on it.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene change: sunnydale high school. cut to principal snyder's office. he stands at the door, hands in pockets, looking with great satisfaction at willow and percy west, who are seated facing his desk.
snyder: as far as i'm concerned, this is a marriage made in heaven.
scene direction: snyder takes off his jacket
snyder: willow rosenberg, despite her unsavory associations,
scene direction: snyder hangs it on the coat rack
snyder: represents the pinnacle of academic achievement at sunnydale high.
scene direction: snyder strolls up to them
snyder: percy west represents a devastating fast break
scene direction: snyder puts his hand on percy's shoulder
scene direction: and 50% from behind the three-point line. (goes around his desk to his chair)
scene direction: willow confused
willow: i-i'm not sure i understand the marriage part.
scene direction: willow glances at percy
scene direction: snyder indicates willow
snyder: you've got the brains,
scene direction: snyder indicates percy
scene direction: he's got the fast break. (brings his hands together) it's a perfect match.
scene direction: willow very confused
willow: match?
scene direction: willow double-takes at percy
willow: you want us to breed?
snyder: i want you to tutor him.
scene direction: snyder sits
snyder: percy is flunking history.
scene direction: nothing seems to be able to motivate him.
scene direction: percy flippantly
percy: hey, i'm *challenged*.
scene direction: snyder raises his eyebrows
snyder: you're lazy, self-involved and spoiled. that's quite the challenge. but we need a winning year, especially after last year's debacle with the swim team. can't have our point guard benched.
scene direction: snyder to willow
snyder: so, you're gonna take on a little teaching job.
scene direction: (encouragingly) i know how you enjoy teaching.
scene direction: willow makes feeble excuses
willow: well, i have a lot of work of my own.
snyder: you've got a letter of acceptance from every university with a stamp.
willow: y-yes, but i still have classes and i don't...
scene direction: snyder interrupts
snyder: rosenberg, it's time to give something back to the community.
scene direction: snyder stands up
snyder: i know you wanna help your school out here. ask me how i know.
scene direction: willow obediently
willow: how do you...?
scene direction: snyder interrupts, glares ominously
snyder: i just... know.
scene change: cut to the library. willow and buffy push the doors open and walk in.
buffy: so he threatened you? with what?
willow: well, i-it wasn't exactly anything he said. it was all in his eyes. i mean, there was some nostril work as well, but mostly eyes.
buffy: snyder needs me to kick his ass.
willow: oh, no, buffy, don't get in trouble. i'll be okay.
scene direction: they reach the study table. willow sets down her books, buffy sits on it.
willow: i just hate the way he bullies people. he just assumes everyone's time is his.
scene direction: she lifts her bag from her shoulder and sets it down also as giles comes out of his office sucking on a lollipop.
giles: willow, get on the computer. i want you to take another pass at accessing the mayor's files.
scene direction: willow happily
willow: okay.
scene direction: she heads behind the counter to use the computer there. faith comes into the library followed by an out-of-breath wesley.
scene direction: faith sarcastically
faith: well, that was a blast.
giles: how did it go?
scene direction: faith points at wesley behind her
faith: princess margaret here had a little trouble keeping up.
scene direction: wesley makes it to the counter and leans heavily against it. buffy raises her eyebrows at the sight.
scene direction: giles to wesley
giles: how did it go?
scene direction: wesley panting heavily
wesley: faith, uh...
scene direction: wesley pants
wesley: did quite well on the obstacle field.
scene direction: wesley pants
wesley: still a little sloppy, though.
scene direction: faith shoots him an incredulous look.
giles: do you feel up to, uh, taking buffy out, or shall i?
scene direction: wesley pants
wesley: oh, no, no, no.
scene direction: wesley pants
wesley: i'll be fine.
scene direction: wesley pants
wesley: just give me a minute.
scene direction: wesley pants
wesley: and some defibrillators, if it's
scene direction: wesley pants
wesley: not too much trouble.
faith: you're gonna love it, b. it's just like fun, only boring.
scene direction: faith grimaces
scene direction: giles sternly
giles: faith, this evaluation is a necessary part of the council's...
scene direction: faith apologetically
faith: i know. i'm on board here. just shooting my mouth off.
buffy: i better change.
scene direction: she starts to walk out. as she passes by, faith leans toward her.
faith: good luck.
scene direction: she reaches out, lightly brushes buffy's shoulder with her hand and gives her a little smile. buffy returns the smile weakly and continues out. wesley takes a deep breath and follows her. faith notices willow at the computer and hops up on the counter to sit and watch.
faith: what cha doin'?
scene direction: willow trying to concentrate
willow: i'm trying to access the mayor's personal files.
scene direction: faith surprised
faith: can you do that?
willow: well, he's got some tricky barriers set up.
scene direction: faith warily
faith: can you get past 'em?
scene direction: willow stubbornly
willow: eventually i'll get through.
scene direction: faith watches intently as willow continues her hacking.
scene change: cut to a spacious new studio apartment. mayor wilkins considers faith's report.
scene direction: mayor wilkins musingly
mayor wilkins: that's very interesting.
faith: yeah, i thought so, too.
scene direction: faith looks around
faith: are you serious about this place?
scene direction: faith continues exploring
mayor wilkins: of course i am. no slayer of *mine* is gonna live in a fleabag hotel. that place has a very unsavory reputation. there are immoral liaisons going on there.
scene direction: faith checks out the kitchen
faith: yeah, plus all the screwing. this place is the kick!
scene direction: she walks past a leather punching bag hanging in a corner and continues into the sleeping area.
mayor wilkins: we'll keep your old place, in case you need to see your friends there, but from now on...
scene direction: faith jumps up on the bed and bounces.
scene direction: mayor wilkins appalled
mayor wilkins: oh, hey, hey, hey! shoes! shoes!
scene direction: faith hops off of the bed and goes up to the mayor.
scene direction: faith smiling sultrily
faith: thanks, sugar daddy.
scene direction: mayor wilkins admonishing-ly
mayor wilkins: now, faith, i don't find that sort of thing amusing. i'm a family man.
scene direction: he steps aside to let faith continue looking around.
scene direction: mayor wilkins briskly
mayor wilkins: now, let's kill your little friend.
scene direction: faith gives him an uneasy look.
scene direction: mayor wilkins reassuringly
mayor wilkins: don't worry. i wouldn't ask you to do it.
scene direction: not this early in the relationship. (faith sits, doubtfully considers)
scene direction: besides, i think a vampire attack would be less suspicious anyway. in the meantime, let's take a look at the rest of the apartment, huh?
scene direction: (faith stands up again) if i'm not mistaken, some lucky girl has herself a playstation.
scene direction: faith grins broadly
faith: no way.
scene direction: mayor wilkins grins back proudly
mayor wilkins: yes way!
scene direction: mayor wilkins chuckles happily
scene direction: faith heads over to the tv to check it out.
scene change: cut to the halls at sunnydale high. oz finds willow as she walks along.
oz: hey!
willow: oz! hi!
scene direction: they smile at each other and move closer to hug.
oz: there's something about you that's causing me to hug you.
scene direction: oz teasingly
oz: it's like i have no will of my own.
scene direction: they move apart. willow has a huge smile on her face.
willow: where were you yesterday?
scene direction: they start walking, holding hands.
oz: mm... we got back late, sort of very.
scene direction: willow perplexed
willow: we? who? where?
oz: the band. we had a gig in monterey sunday night.
scene direction: they stop by a classroom.
scene direction: willow distressed
willow: oh, you did? how come i didn't know?
scene direction: oz surprised
oz: i thought you did.
scene direction: willow hurt
willow: maybe i would have liked to go.
oz: didn't figure you for missing school.
scene direction: willow disappointed
willow: you think i'm boring.
oz: i'd call that a radical interpretation of the text. we're playing tonight at the bronze.
scene direction: willow apologetically
willow: i can't. i have too much homework.
scene direction: oz invitingly
oz: if you get done early...
scene direction: he steps toward the classroom. their hands don't part until necessary.
scene change: cut to the quad. percy comes up the stairs from the underpass below the administrative offices. willow catches up with him. he just continues walking, completely disinterested.
willow: percy! hey. listen, i thought we could get together today at lunch and go over your roosevelt paper. you know, what books you'll need and stuff.
scene direction: percy purposely obtuse
percy: what are you talking about?
willow: me tutoring you. your, your history paper?
percy: oh, yeah, yeah. snyder said *you* were gonna do it.
scene direction: willow surprised
willow: he never said that.
scene direction: percy gives her an obnoxious look
percy: what meeting were *you* at?
willow: look, i-i'll get the books you need. just meet me at lunch and...
scene direction: percy interrupts
percy: no, no, no. i don't have any time at lunch. i gotta hang out.
willow: well...
scene direction: percy stops and faces her, impatiently
percy: what, what, you got something better to do? just type it up and put my name on it. oh, and don't type too good. dead giveaway.
scene direction: percy leaves
scene direction: willow can't believe his attitude and sinks down on one of the benches dejectedly. she takes off her pack, reaches in and pulls out a banana.
scene direction: willow with resolve
willow: i'm eating this now.
scene direction: willow daringly
willow: it's not lunchtime, i don't even care.
scene direction: before she can begin peeling it, buffy and xander walk up to her.
buffy: hey.
xander: willow, did you remember to tape biography last friday?
scene direction: willow absently
willow: uh-huh.
scene direction: willow struggles with the banana
scene direction: buffy to xander, proudly
buffy: see, i told you. old reliable.
scene direction: xander nods and smiles. willow is not amused.
scene direction: willow sourly
willow: oh, thanks.
scene direction: buffy taken aback
buffy: what?
willow: 'old reliable'? yeah, great.
scene direction: willow reprovingly
willow: *there's* a sexy nickname.
buffy: well, i-i didn't mean it as...
willow: no, it's fine. i'm 'old reliable'.
xander: she just means, you know, the geyser. you're like a geyser of fun that goes off at regular intervals.
scene direction: willow disgustedly
willow: that's old faithful.
xander: isn't that the dog that, that the guy had to shoot...
scene direction: willow incensed
willow: that's old yeller.
buffy: xander, i beg you not to help me. will, i-i didn't mean it as a bad thing. i-i think it's good to be reliable.
scene direction: willow stands up, annoyed
willow: well, maybe i don't *wanna* be reliable all the time. maybe i'm not just some doormat person. homework gal.
xander: i'm thinking nerve strike.
scene direction: willow huffs at him and starts to go, but turns back.
willow: maybe i'll change my look! or cut class. you don't know.
scene direction: buffy and xander just give her surprised looks.
scene direction: willow holds up her banana defiantly
willow: and i'm eating this banana.
scene direction: lunchtime be damned! (strides off)
scene direction: buffy goes after her
buffy: will, wait. i'm really sorry...
scene direction: willow interrupts, chiding gently
willow: buff, i'm storming off. it doesn't really work if you come with me.
scene direction: buffy chastened
buffy: oh.
scene direction: willow goes on her way. buffy looks back sadly at xander.
scene change: cut to the halls. willow starts trudging up the stairs. anya notices her.
anya: uh, willow?
scene direction: willow turns around
willow: uh, hi.
scene direction: willow doesn't recognize
scene direction: anya gestures at herself
anya: anya.
scene direction: anya smiles
anya: i'm sort of new here.
scene direction: anya hopefully
anya: um, i know cordelia?
scene direction: willow smiles thinly
willow: oh, fun.
anya: yeah. um, listen,
scene direction: anya steps up closer to her
anya: i have this little project i'm working on, and i heard you were the person to ask if...
scene direction: willow interrupts, ironically
willow: yeah, that's me. reliable-dog-geyser person. what do you need?
anya: oh, it's nothing big.
scene direction: anya secretively
anya: just a little spell i'm working on.
scene direction: anya shrugs
scene direction: willow suddenly interested, steps down to her
willow: a spell?
scene direction: willow nonchalantly
willow: oh. i like the black arts.
anya: i just need a secondary to create a temporal fold. i heard you were a pretty powerful wicca, so...
scene direction: anya shrugs again
scene direction: willow smiles excitedly
willow: you heard right, mister! i-i-i'm always ready to work some dark mojo.
scene direction: willow hopefully
willow: so, tell me, is it dangerous?
scene direction: anya dismissively
anya: oh, no.
scene direction: anya shakes her head
scene direction: willow disappointed
willow: well, could we pretend it is?
scene change: cut to an empty classroom after school. the camera pulls back from a large white plate with a representation of anya's lost necklace painted on it. willow kneels facing it, arranging herbs, bones and candles. anya sits at a desk and prepares a mixture of sands and powders.
anya: the necklace was a family heirloom passed down for generations.
scene direction: then it was stolen from my mom's apartment.
willow: how does the spell work?
scene direction: anya gets up
anya: uh, well, we both call on eryishon,
scene direction: anya kneels opposite willow
anya: the endless one, offer up the standard supplication, then there's a teensy temporal fold.
scene direction: anya smiles weakly
anya: we hope. um, then i pour the sacred sand on the representation of the necklace, and eryishon brings it forth from the time and place it was lost.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: cool.
anya: are we ready?
scene direction: willow slightly nervous
willow: i think so.
scene direction: anya takes a deep breath and holds her hand out palm up over the plate.
anya: eryishon. k'shala. meh-uhn.
scene direction: willow also reaches out with her hand palm up, keeping hers tip-to-tip with anya's.
willow: diprecht. doh-tehenlo nu-eryishon.
scene direction: anya picks up the bottle of sacred sand and holds it over the plate.
anya: the child to the mother.
scene direction: willow takes hold of the bottle as well.
willow: the river to the sea.
scene direction: anya closes her eyes
anya: eryishon, hear my prayer.
scene direction: willow closes her eyes also. there is a low rumbling, and a pillar of energy appears over the plate and around the girls' hands. their hands begin to shake, and willow whips open her eyes, surprised by how powerful this spell actually is.
scene direction: she sees scenes from an alternate universe - anyanka choking giles, licking her fingers, herself and xander as vampires, anyanka's necklace, buffy staking xander, herself as a vampire, herself impaled on the broken wood of the cage, anyanka's necklace smashed, her vampire self attacking buffy and getting backhand punched, the master watching, herself falling to the floor, being grabbed by larry, sitting alone in an empty factory without the machine, oz coming for her, the master grabbing buffy.
scene direction: in the classroom anya turns over the bottle of sand, and it pours out.
scene direction: some of it sifts through willow's fingers before hitting the plate. more visions follow - angel letting the imprisoned humans out, herself fighting one, oz still coming for her, reaching out to grab her...
scene direction: suddenly she disappears from the scene.
scene direction: willow flashes back to the classroom, where she has a wide-eyed look of surprise and shock on her face. the pillar of energy fades, and she pulls back her hands, breathing hard.
willow: that was... w-w-what was that?
scene direction: willow slowly stands up
scene direction: anya feels for her necklace in the sands
anya: oh, it's not here.
scene direction: anya pounds the floor, frustrated
anya: it's not here!
scene direction: willow composes herself
willow: okay, that's a little blacker than i like my arts.
scene direction: anya exasperated
anya: oh, don't be such a wimp.
scene direction: willow very uneasy
willow: that, that-that wasn't just some temporal fold, that was some weird hell place. i-i don't think you're telling me everything.
scene direction: anya tersely insistent
anya: i swear, i am just trying to find my necklace.
scene direction: willow indignantly
willow: well, did you try looking inside the sofa *in hell*?
anya: look,
scene direction: anya smiles sweetly
anya: we'll just try it again, and...
scene direction: willow steps back
willow: no! i-i think emphatically not!
scene direction: anya angrily
anya: i can't do it by myself!
scene direction: willow gathers her things
willow: that's a relief. i'm outta here.
scene direction: anya furiously
anya: fine! go!
scene direction: anya mutters to herself
anya: idiot child.
scene direction: willow overhears that, and doesn't appreciate it.
scene direction: willow reaches down, haughtily
willow: i believe these chicken feet are mine. look, m-magic is dangerous, anya, i-it's, it's not to be toyed with. now, if you'll excuse me, i have someone else's homework to do.
scene direction: she leaves the room. anya looks down at the plate, frustrated, then picks it up.
scene direction: anya anguished
anya: nothing!
scene direction: anya smashes it
scene change: cut to the factory. it's empty except for a lot of small debris. evil willow jerks up from the floor and looks around, shocked to suddenly find that the master, his machine, the humans, the vampires, everything is gone.
evil willow: this is weird.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene change: cut to the street in front of the sun cinema. "hotel" and "the goose ran" are the featured films. the camera pans down from the sign to several children running along the sidewalk and comes up on evil willow.
scene direction: she's standing in the street, disoriented and confused by everything she sees around her. there are so many people and children boldly walking and running around at night without a care in the world. to her it's all strange. very strange. these people should be cowering in their homes, not out enjoying themselves. as she walks along the yellow centerline, some people walk by her, crossing the street from the theater to the espresso pump, coming within reaching distance, blissfully unaware of who she is. no one fears her. no one even notices her. behind her she hears a girl screaming and turns to look, but the girl is just resisting some teasing from her boyfriend, not shaking in fear of a vampire. an old woman approaches her, not even put off by her full leather attire.
old woman: e-e-excuse me, young lady...
scene direction: evil willow faces her and snarls. the lady is frightened, and she backs away shaken, but she's not terrified as evil willow would have expected, probably assuming she was just another punk. she rolls her eyes and continues.
scene change: cut to the bronze. k's choice is on stage performing "virgin state of mind", a slow bluesy number, while several couples slow dance to it.
lyrics: there's a chair in my head on which i used to sit / took a pencil and i wrote the following on it / now there's a key where my wonderful mouth / used to be evil willow enters and looks around. the place is calm, especially compared to what she's used to. people are hanging out, chatting, drinking, playing pool. only a few eyes notice her in her black leather.
lyrics: dig it up, throw it at me / dig it up, throw it at me evil willow stops by a pool table and looks forlornly all around, taking in the situation.
lyrics: where can i run to / where can i hide / who will i turn to / now i'm in the virgin state of mind a guy in a leather jacket can't help but notice evil willow as she walks around him, staring appraisingly at him with her evil scowl. she just keeps going. he doesn't want anything to do with her.
lyrics: got a knife to disengage the voids that i can't bear / cut out words i've got written on my chair / like, do you think i'm sexy / and do you think i really care evil willow begins to get depressed about how things suddenly are. she doesn't watch where she's going, and neither does percy, who bumps into her.
percy: hey!
scene direction: percy recognizes her, surprised, then amused
percy: rosenberg? what are you doing, trick-or-treating?
scene direction: percy points at her
percy: you're supposed to be at home doing my history report. i flunk that class, you're in big trouble with snyder.
scene direction: percy smugly
percy: till we graduate, i own your ass.
scene direction: she raises her eyes and looks at him with weary amusement.
evil willow: bored now.
scene direction: she shoves the heel of her hand squarely into his chest, sending him flying onto a pool table. he lands hard on his back, and his momentum forces him into a back roll off of it. several guys around them are shocked.
guy#1: whoa, whoa, whoa, man!
guy#2: hey!
guy#1: what's up with *that*, man?
guy#3: what the heck?
scene direction: evil willow now has the attention of the crowd as she slowly goes over to percy.
scene direction: evil willow pensively
evil willow: i'm having a terrible night.
scene direction: she reaches down and lifts percy up from the floor by his throat, digging her fingertips into his flesh and choking him.
scene direction: evil willow expectantly
evil willow: wanna make it better?
scene direction: percy tries to punch her, but she idly blocks him and looks up into his eyes, sadly at first but then with a wide grin when percy can't pull her hand off. he clutches her neck with his other hand and tries to choke her. some guys in the background make fun of percy, unaware of the seriousness of his situation.
guy#4: check it out!
scene direction: xander comes up behind him, eager to get in on the fun.
xander: what's going on? is there a funny thing?
scene direction: the guys laughingly point over at evil willow and percy, who have both hands around each other's necks now. percy is choking, while evil willow just continues to smile. xander runs up behind percy and yanks him off of her, throwing him to the floor.
xander: back off! you stay the hell away from her!
scene direction: percy panicked
percy: okay! sure!
scene direction: percy scrambles away
scene direction: xander turns back to make sure willow is okay, but is stunned by the way she's dressed. for her part, evil willow's face brightens, glad to finally see a familiar face.
scene direction: evil willow thrilled
evil willow: xander!
scene direction: xander amazed
xander: will, changing the look not an idle threat with you.
scene direction: evil willow smiles widely
evil willow: you're alive!
scene direction: she hugs him, running her hands sensuously over his neck and back.
xander: uh... will, this is verging on naughty touching here.
scene direction: xander her hands go further down
xander: don't wanna fall back on bad habits.
scene direction: xander her hands reach his butt
scene direction: xander jumps, surprised
xander: hands! hands in new places!
scene direction: evil willow realizes, confused, revolted
evil willow: you're alive.
scene direction: xander nods, eyeing her curiously
xander: you mentioned that before. will, are you okay?
scene direction: evil willow distraught
evil willow: no! everything's different.
scene direction: buffy finds them
buffy: oh. there you are.
scene direction: xander never looking away from evil willow
xander: hey, buff.
buffy: aren't you gonna introduce me to your...
scene direction: buffy recognizes
buffy: holy *god*, you're willow.
scene direction: evil willow recognizes the slayer, vehemently
evil willow: you.
scene direction: buffy tries to be polite
buffy: you know what?
scene direction: buffy smiles supportively
buffy: i, i like the look.
scene direction: buffy stammers
buffy: it's, um... it's, it's extreme, but it, it, it looks good, you know, it's a
scene direction: buffy breathes deeply
buffy: leather thing, and, uh...
scene direction: buffy to xander
buffy: i said extreme already, right?
scene direction: evil willow steps up to buffy, eyes narrowed with hatred
evil willow: i don't like you.
scene direction: buffy taken aback
buffy: will, i'm sorry about today. you know how my foot likes to live in my mouth.
scene direction: buffy puzzled
buffy: but you know... y-you really didn't have to prove anything.
scene direction: evil willow glares at both of them with disgust. she has nothing to say to these humans.
evil willow: leaving now.
scene direction: evil willow starts away
xander: will, gotta say, not lovin' the new you.
scene direction: buffy goes after her
buffy: will, wait...
scene direction: she grasps evil willow's arm from behind and turns her around, and is dumbfounded when she sees her in her vampire guise.
scene direction: evil willow roars
evil willow: get off me!
scene direction: she shakes the slayer off and stalks away, leaving buffy and xander standing there in complete shock and dawning horror.
scene change: cut to an alley. evil willow strides along it at a brisk pace. behind her two vampires come into view.
alfonse: willow rosenberg.
scene direction: evil willow stops and smiles to herself in anticipation
evil willow: i'm not supposed to talk to strangers.
alfonse: then we won't talk.
scene direction: he nudges his partner to attack. evil willow does a side kick at him, sending him stumbling back. alfonse lunges at her, but she grabs onto his shoulder and uses his momentum to flip him to the ground. she turns around and does a half-spinning hook kick to the other one's head. he backs up a step, but keeps his balance and leans back in to punch evil willow. she middle blocks two shots and follows up with a punch to his head. she grabs his shoulder while he's dazed and flips him over onto his back. alfonse comes at her again, and she connects with a roundhouse kick to his side. he falls, but gets up quickly and grabs her shoulder.
scene direction: she grabs onto his hand to keep it in place, and with her other hand she pushes down on his shoulder, forcing him to flip forward onto his back.
scene direction: she takes his hand and jerks it back hard, snapping his wrist. he grunts in pain and gives in.
scene direction: evil willow reprovingly
evil willow: you made me cranky.
scene direction: she brushes her fingers against his.
scene direction: alfonse panting
alfonse: there's been a mistake here. we were sent after a human.
scene direction: evil willow intrigued
evil willow: really? who do you work for?
scene direction: alfonse hoarsely
alfonse: i'm not telling you a thing.
scene direction: with a half-smile, she takes one of his fingers and bends it back sharply, breaking it. he screams in pain.
scene direction: evil willow still smiling
evil willow: who do you work for?
scene direction: alfonse gives in
alfonse: wilkins. the mayor.
scene direction: she takes another finger and breaks it, too. again he cries out in pain.
evil willow: *who* do you work for?
scene direction: evil willow bats her eyes suggestively
scene direction: alfonse gets it
alfonse: you.
scene direction: she drops his arm and lets him up. the other vampire gets up also, rubbing his head.
scene direction: evil willow commands
evil willow: get your friends. bring them here. the world's no fun anymore.
scene direction: evil willow smiles evilly
evil willow: we're gonna make it the way it was.
scene direction: starting with the bronze.
scene direction: alfonse nods obediently at his new boss.
scene change: cut to the library. buffy and xander come in, both silent, very detached from reality. giles hears them come in and walks out from his office.
giles: oh, buffy. i thought you were going out tonight. i didn't expect...
scene direction: he sees the oppressive grief in their expressions.
scene direction: giles very worried
giles: what is it?
scene change: cut to later, after they've explained. they all sit on the stairs to the stacks, detached and staring off into space. giles dangles his glasses from his hands. xander idly handles a cross.
scene direction: xander takes a breath
xander: this isn't real.
scene direction: buffy numbly
buffy: i can't feel anything. arms, legs, anything.
giles: she was truly the finest of all of us.
xander: way better than me.
scene direction: giles nods decisively
giles: much, much better.
xander: it's all my fault.
scene direction: buffy despairingly
buffy: no, it's me. i-it's me. i'm the one that called her reliable. she must have gone out and gotten attacked, which she never would have done if i hadn't have called her reliable. and now my best friend is...
scene direction: willow walks in and finds them there.
scene direction: willow curiously
willow: what's going on?
scene direction: they all look up surprised. xander lifts his cross in defense. willow notices their sad faces and is amazed at their expressions.
willow: jeez, who died?
scene direction: she notices just how deeply sad they really are and realizes she may have gotten it right.
scene direction: willow almost panicked
willow: oh, god! who died?
scene direction: xander jumps up and gets in willow's face with the cross.
xander: back! get back, demon!
scene direction: she doesn't cower from it, but instead shows deep concern for him, thinking maybe he's flipped out or something. xander shakes the cross as though it were broken and puts it back in her face. buffy and giles notice that she's not frightened of the cross, and slowly approach.
scene direction: buffy breathlessly
buffy: willow, you're alive?
scene direction: willow puzzled
willow: aren't i usually?
scene direction: without any further hesitation, buffy runs the two steps to her best friend and hugs her hard and close.
buffy: oh!
scene direction: willow is surprised, and lets out a little groan from the tightness of the embrace. an instant later xander is also hugging her for all he's worth.
scene direction: willow wonderingly
willow: i love you guys, too?
scene direction: the hug goes on for a long moment before it gets too intense for willow.
willow: okay. oxygen becoming an issue.
scene direction: they both let go, smiling at her with tears in their eyes. she smiles back, but still doesn't know what to make of it all.
willow: giles, what's going on with these...
scene direction: before she can finish she finds herself being warmly embraced again by the normally reserved watcher.
willow: oh!
scene direction: again she groans from the tightness of the hug, and giles quickly releases her, a bit embarrassed at his emotional display.
giles: oh. sorry.
scene direction: giles backs away
scene direction: willow still wondering
willow: it's really nice that you guys missed me.
scene direction: willow wide-eyed
willow: say, you all didn't happen to do a bunch of drugs, did ya?
scene direction: xander breathless
xander: will, we saw you at the bronze. a vampire.
scene direction: willow startled, then insulted
willow: i'm not a *vampire*.
buffy: you are.
scene direction: buffy gets a look from willow
buffy: i-i mean, you, you were.
scene direction: buffy very confused
buffy: giles, planning on jumping in with an explanation any time soon?
scene direction: giles very unsure
giles: well, uh... something... something, um, very strange is happening.
scene direction: xander facetiously
xander: can you believe the watcher's council let this guy go?
scene change: cut to the bronze. anya walks up to the bar and sits.
scene direction: anya wearily
anya: what a day.
scene direction: anya to the bartender
anya: gimme a beer.
scene direction: bartender deadpan
bartender: i.d.
scene direction: she gives him an incredulous look.
bartender: i.d.
scene direction: anya loses it, thumps her fists on the bar
anya: i'm eleven hundred and twenty years old! just gimme a friggin' beer!
scene direction: bartender unimpressed
bartender: i.d.
scene direction: anya sighs, defeated
anya: gimme a coke.
scene change: cut to the stage. oz and devon set up their equipment.
devon: man, we need a roadie.
scene direction: devon wistfully
devon: other bands have roadies.
oz: well, other bands know more than three chords. your professional bands can play up to six, sometimes seven *completely* different chords.
devon: that's just, like, fruity jazz bands.
scene direction: he looks worriedly at oz, seeking confirmation for this theory.
scene direction: angel finds them
angel: oz.
oz: hey, man. you looking for buffy?
angel: as always.
oz: well, no sightings as of yet, but i think she said she'd show.
scene direction: the door to the club opens, and in walk several vampires. they fan out into the crowd. the people back away in fright. alfonse comes in last, grabs an unlucky boy and throws him into a table.
scene direction: oz quietly to angel
oz: that doesn't look good.
scene direction: alfonse yells
alfonse: everybody, shut up!
scene direction: from over at the bar, anya notices the vampires and begins to take an interest.
scene direction: alfonse to everyone
alfonse: alright. nobody cause any trouble or try to leave... and nobody gets hurt.
scene direction: angel quietly
angel: why don't i believe him?
scene direction: oz quietly
oz: well, he lacks credibility.
scene direction: they notice one of the vampires prevent a guy from leaving through the back door.
oz: can you get outta here?
scene direction: angel eyes cast upward
angel: skylight in the roof. i can make it.
scene direction: oz worried
oz: i think we need some backup.
scene direction: angel evenly
angel: i think i'm needed here.
scene direction: oz raises his eyebrows
oz: ten to one. could get pointless.
scene direction: the door opens again and another vampire enters, followed closely by evil willow. she looks around at everyone, very pleased. anya straightens up now, quite intrigued. evil willow smiles when she reaches the middle of the empty dance floor.
evil willow: look. everyone's all afraid.
scene direction: evil willow sighs blissfully
evil willow: it's just like old times.
scene direction: oz in utter disbelief
oz: get buffy. do it now.
scene direction: angel wastes no time, wheels around, and begins climbing the stage ropes to the roof. devon gets in close behind oz.
scene direction: devon quietly, smiling
devon: dude, check out your girlfriend.
scene direction: evil willow saunters leisurely over to a girl alone at a table.
scene direction: evil willow sweetly
evil willow: what's your name?
sandy: sandy.
scene direction: evil willow lightly brushes her hands along sandy's arm and takes her hand. she slowly pulls her onto the dance floor where everyone can see them.
evil willow: you don't have to be afraid...
scene direction: evil willow smiles disarmingly
evil willow: just to please me.
scene direction: evil willow to everyone
evil willow: if you're all good boys and girls, we'll make you young and strong forever and ever.
scene direction: she turns sandy around to face the stage and stands behind her, continuing to fondle sandy's shoulders and head.
scene direction: evil willow enticingly
evil willow: we'll have fun.
scene direction: sandy flinches when evil willow grasps her hair and pulls it to the side, forcing sandy to tilt her head, leaving her neck bare. evil willow lasciviously licks the girl's neck.
evil willow: if you're not...
scene direction: she looks around warningly, vamps out, smiles, licks her lips and roars as she bites sandy savagely on the neck and drains her dry. oz tries to run from the stage to sandy's aid, but is stopped by one of the vampires.
scene direction: devon to oz
devon: no, man!
scene direction: when evil willow is finished feeding, she lets sandy's lifeless body collapse to the floor and morphs back to her human guise.
scene direction: evil willow idly curious
evil willow: questions? comments?
scene direction: oz shocked
oz: willow. you don't wanna do this.
scene direction: evil willow approaches blithely
evil willow: i don't?
scene direction: evil willow smiles proudly
evil willow: but i'm so good at it.
scene direction: the vampire holding oz lets him go down to meet her.
scene direction: oz horrified
oz: who *did* this to you?
scene direction: evil willow recognizes him
evil willow: i know you.
scene direction: evil willow disgustedly
evil willow: you're a white hat.
scene direction: evil willow eyes narrow, puzzled
evil willow: how come you're talking to me like we're friends?
scene direction: anya slowly comes up to her from behind.
scene direction: anya unafraid
anya: 'cause he thinks you're someone else. he thinks you're the willow that belongs in *this* reality.
scene direction: evil willow confused
evil willow: another me?
anya: you know this isn't your world, right? i mean, you know you don't belong here.
scene direction: evil willow softly
evil willow: no. this is a dumb world.
scene direction: evil willow smiles wistfully
evil willow: in my world there are people in chains, and we can ride them like ponies.
scene direction: anya states the obvious
anya: you wanna get back there.
scene direction: evil willow nods mournfully
evil willow: yeah.
anya: so do i.
scene change: cut to the school. cut to the library. giles sits deep in thought.
scene direction: willow leans in giles' office doorway while buffy and xander sit on the study table.
willow: this is creepy. i don't like the thought that there's a vampire out there that looks like me.
xander: not looks like. is.
buffy: it was exactly you, will, every detail. except for your not being a dominatrix.
scene direction: buffy uneasily
buffy: as far as we know.
scene direction: willow rolls her eyes, grins sardonically
willow: oh, right. me and oz play 'mistress of pain' every night.
scene direction: giles furrows his brow. buffy and xander's eyes glaze over.
xander: did anyone else just go to a scary visual place?
buffy: oh, yeah.
scene direction: they all look up when angel makes a quick and noisy entrance, breathing hard from running.
scene direction: angel very upset
angel: buffy, i... i just... something's happened that...
scene direction: he pauses when he gets patient, waiting looks from buffy and xander.
scene direction: angel blurts it out
angel: willow's dead.
scene direction: buffy and xander nod knowingly. willow straightens up from leaning against the door frame. angel notices her.
scene direction: angel distractedly
angel: hey, willow.
scene direction: he looks back at buffy and xander. xander raises his eyebrows at him.
scene direction: suddenly it clicks in angel's mind, and he does a double take at willow.
scene direction: angel very confused
angel: wait a second.
scene direction: he looks back at buffy and xander for confirmation. giles raises his eyebrows, rolls his eyes and grimaces.
scene direction: xander understandingly
xander: we're *right* there with you, buddy.
buffy: we saw her, too, at the bronze.
scene direction: willow smiles reassuringly at him and blithely waves.
scene direction: angel still somewhat unsure
angel: okay. she's there now with a cadre of vampires looking to party.
scene direction: they all immediately get up and head out.
scene direction: buffy resignedly
buffy: we can figure out who she is *after* we stop the feeding frenzy.
scene change: cut to the hall.
buffy: how many of them were there?
angel: eight or ten.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: should we call faith?
giles: no, i don't want her in combat yet. not around civilians.
scene direction: xander heartily
xander: hear, hear.
scene direction: willow holds back
willow: guys?
scene direction: willow they stop and look back
willow: what are we gonna do with me? the... other... me?
scene direction: the three men look at each other uncomfortably, shuffling their feet and hanging back. buffy realizes she has to take the lead.
scene direction: buffy comes closer to willow
buffy: i don't know, will.
scene direction: buffy hesitates
buffy: i mean, we just have to stop them.
willow: i-i get that. i just kind of wanted to know...
scene direction: willow thinks of something
willow: oh! hey, uh, go. i-i'll catch up.
scene direction: she heads back into the library as the others go. cut inside the library. willow goes to the checkout counter and leans over, but can't reach what she's looking for. she starts to go around it, but an arm reaches around from behind and grabs her. a hand clamps over her mouth to prevent her from screaming.
scene direction: evil willow gloating
evil willow: alone at last.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the library. evil willow turns willow around and looks her up and down, particularly noticing her pink sweater.
scene direction: evil willow appraisingly
evil willow: well, look at me.
scene direction: evil willow doubtfully
evil willow: i'm all fuzzy.
willow: what do i want with you?
scene direction: willow catches herself
willow: uh...
scene direction: evil willow grimly
evil willow: your little school friend anya said that you're the one that brought me here. she said that you could get me back to my world.
willow: oh.
scene direction: willow gets it
willow: oh! oops!
evil willow: but i don't know...
scene direction: evil willow smiles wickedly
evil willow: i kinda *like* the idea of the two of us.
scene direction: she turns willow around again, caressing her shoulders.
evil willow: we could be quite a team,
scene direction: evil willow meaningfully
evil willow: if you came around to *my* way of thinking.
scene direction: willow uncertainly
willow: would that mean we have to snuggle?
scene direction: evil willow brushes willow's hair away from her neck.
scene direction: evil willow coaxing
evil willow: what do you say?
scene direction: she gives willow's neck an eager, lengthy lick. willow shudders with loathing and grimaces at the feeling.
scene direction: evil willow enticingly
evil willow: wanna be bad?
scene direction: willow completely unnerved
willow: this just can't get more disturbing.
scene direction: evil willow growls horribly with desire and bares her teeth behind willow's neck. willow freaks out and whirls around, stepping back and away from her.
scene direction: willow flapping her hands with disgust
willow: ack! ew! no more! you're really starting to freak me out!
scene direction: she tries to go around evil willow, but gets blocked. she snatches up xander's cross from the counter and nervously waves it in evil willow's face, who roars and bats her arm away, sending the cross flying. she grabs willow and throws her hard up and over the counter. willow lands with a crash, hitting her head hard against the metal filing cabinet.
willow: ow!
scene direction: evil willow stalks grimly around the counter
evil willow: you don't wanna play, i guess i can't force you.
scene direction: willow reaches under the counter for what she originally came for and pulls out the dart rifle just as evil willow comes through the door to behind the counter.
evil willow: oh, wait.
scene direction: willow locks the bolt in place.
scene direction: evil willow smiling meanly
evil willow: i can.
scene direction: willow frantically aims and fires. the dart hits evil willow dead center of her chest. stunned, she looks down at the protruding dart, staggers and starts to fall.
scene direction: evil willow moans
evil willow: bitch...
scene direction: she hits the floor. willow stares in fearful amazement at her other fallen self.
scene change: cut to later. angel and xander drag evil willow by the arms into the book cage.
scene direction: giles dumbfounded
giles: it's extraordinary.
scene direction: willow appalled
willow: it's horrible! that's me as a vampire?
scene direction: willow angel closes the door
willow: i'm so evil and... skanky.
scene direction: willow aside to buffy, worried
willow: and i think i'm kinda gay.
scene direction: buffy reassuringly
buffy: willow, just remember, a vampire's personality has nothing to do with the person it was.
scene direction: angel without thinking
angel: well, actually...
scene direction: angel gets a look from buffy
scene direction: that's a good point.
xander: so, uh, what do we do now?
giles: we still have to get to the bronze.
angel: well, even if they're supposed to wait for her they may start feeding. vampires are not notoriously reliable.
scene direction: xander hopefully
xander: so we charge in, much in the style of john wayne?
giles: high casualty risk. i haven't any other plan, though.
scene direction: buffy raises her hand
buffy: uh, i have a really bad idea.
scene change: cut to the bronze. the camera pans from the sign down to the group.
scene direction: angel drops down from the roof onto a crate, then down to the pavement.
angel: they're still in a holding pattern. that's good. it means they must really be afraid of you.
scene direction: willow walks up to them wearing evil willow's leather ensemble.
willow: who wouldn't be?
scene direction: she shifts around uncomfortably, trying to get the feel of the tight outfit.
buffy: are you okay in that?
willow: it's a little binding. i guess vampires really don't have to breathe.
scene direction: willow notices her cleavage
willow: gosh, look at those.
scene direction: xander stares with wide eyes.
scene direction: giles stammers
giles: um, ahem, willow, you, uh, you go in and defuse the situation as best you can. at least try and get some of them to come out and even up the odds a bit.
buffy: first sign of trouble, you give us a signal. we come in hard and fast.
xander: what *is* the signal?
scene direction: willow worried
willow: me screaming.
angel: giles, you and xander wait by the back entrance.
giles: good.
scene direction: they go. buffy shows concern for her friend.
buffy: now, you're sure you're up to this?
willow: don't worry. i won't do anything that could be interpreted as brave.
scene direction: willow smiles
buffy: we'll be right outside.
scene direction: willow nods wanly and heads for the door, still twisting uncomfortably in the leather. she takes a deep breath and knocks with firm resolve.
scene direction: cut inside. a vampire opens the door. willow smiles and waves at him in greeting.
willow: hi. i'm back.
scene direction: she slowly comes in. alfonse and anya meet her inside. willow does her best not to show her fear.
alfonse: did you find the girl?
scene direction: willow tries to sound authoritative
willow: yep. i did.
scene direction: anya mystified
anya: where is she?
scene direction: willow bravely
willow: i killed her.
scene direction: anya gives her a look of stunned disbelief.
willow: and sucked her blood,
scene direction: willow nods triumphantly
willow: as we vampires do.
scene direction: the silence is thick with tension, making her nervous. she turns to the doorman.
scene direction: willow quietly aside to him
willow: you know, i think maybe i heard something out there. why don't you go check?
scene direction: he opens the door and goes out, closing the door behind him. outside angel grabs him by the shoulders and holds him steady as buffy plunges a stake into his chest. back inside, anya confronts willow.
scene direction: anya incredulous
anya: h-how could you kill her? she was our best shot at getting your world back.
scene direction: willow walks past her, straightens challengingly
willow: i don't like that you dare question me.
scene direction: oz notices that something's up.
scene direction: willow now enjoying herself
willow: maybe i'll have my minions take you out back and kill you horribly.
scene direction: she sneaks oz a little smile and wave. he barely reacts, just raising an eyebrow a bit. anya follows her onto the dance floor.
scene direction: anya muttering
anya: vampires. always thinking with your teeth.
scene direction: willow haughtily
willow: she bothered me. she's so weak and accommodating. she's always letting people walk all over her,
scene direction: willow turns to face her
willow: and then she gets cranky with her friends for no reason. i just *couldn't*
scene direction: let her live.
scene direction: she steps over to another vampire, indicating the door.
scene direction: willow chummily
willow: you know, he's been gone for a while. why don't you go check on him?
scene direction: willow pats his shoulder approvingly
scene direction: he heads for the door and goes out.
scene direction: alfonse impatiently
alfonse: well, boss, since that plan is out, why don't we get with the killing?
scene direction: willow suddenly worries that her plan may have backfired.
scene change: cut to the library. evil willow regains consciousness in the book cage, now dressed in willow's pink sweater and flowery skirt. she sits up and notices her change of clothes.
scene direction: evil willow recoiling
evil willow: oh, this is like a nightmare.
scene direction: the door opens, and cordelia comes into the library. she's dressed in a shimmery evening dress, carrying a couple of books.
cordelia: hello? giles?
scene direction: evil willow notices her and remembers her recent kill in the alternate universe.
scene direction: cordelia casually
cordelia: wesley? i just happened to stop by... for books.
scene direction: evil willow stands up, speaks imperiously
evil willow: hey, you.
scene direction: cordelia faces her
cordelia: 'hey me'?
scene direction: cordelia insulted
cordelia: 'hey me' what? i have a name, you know.
scene direction: evil willow thinks
evil willow: uh, cordelia.
scene direction: cordelia steps over
cordelia: what did you do? lock yourself in the book cage?
scene direction: evil willow cunningly goes along with it
evil willow: yeah. lemme out... 'cause i'm so helpless.
cordelia: okay.
scene direction: she heads behind the counter. evil willow smirks at her success.
cordelia: i think giles keeps a spare. how'd you manage to lock yourself in, anyway?
evil willow: uh, i was looking at books. i like... books...
scene direction: cordelia finds the keys and goes back to the cage.
evil willow: ...'cause i'm shy.
scene direction: cordelia sarcastically
cordelia: yeah, right. the famous shy girl act all the boys fall for.
scene direction: evil willow anxiously
evil willow: open the cage.
scene direction: evil willow tenses up
scene direction: cordelia puts in the key and turns it, but stops short of unlocking it.
scene direction: she looks up at evil willow and has a thought.
cordelia: wait.
scene direction: cordelia briskly
cordelia: it occurs to me that we've never really had the opportunity to talk. you know, woman to woman... with you locked up.
scene direction: evil willow impatient
evil willow: don't wanna talk. hungry.
scene direction: cordelia pretends to think
cordelia: what could we talk about? oh! hey! how about the ethics of boyfriend stealing?
scene direction: evil willow can't believe it.
scene change: cut to the bronze.
willow: i don't know if i feel like killing anymore.
scene direction: anya and alfonse can't believe their ears. willow walks past a girl at a table.
willow: i'm so bored.
scene direction: she idly rakes her fingers through the girl's long hair, but they get tangled. rather than pull them through harder to keep in character, she gently lays the girl's hair back. anya begins to get suspicious. willow strolls over to the stage, putting oz to her back.
willow: i-it would be like shooting fish in a barrel. where's the fun?
scene direction: alfonse smiles grimly
alfonse: with all due respect, boss, the fun would be the eating.
scene direction: willow brilliantly
willow: maybe we should let everyone go, and give them a thirty second head start.
scene direction: anya finally figures it out
anya: wait a minute.
scene direction: willow frowns fretfully
willow: no! i *like* my plan.
scene direction: anya snickers
anya: oh, nice try.
scene direction: willow desperately
willow: okay, let's get to the killing.
scene direction: willow hurriedly to alfonse
willow: why don't we start with her?
anya: why don't we start with you?
scene direction: anya to alfonse, in disgust
anya: if she's a vampire, then i'm the creature from the black lagoon.
scene change: cut to the library. evil willow hangs onto the cage mesh, extremely bored. cordelia has made herself comfortable, seated in a chair facing the cage and holding a mug of coffee.
scene direction: cordelia rationalizing
cordelia: and, okay, it isn't even like i was that attracted to xander. it was more just that we kept being put in these life or death situations, and that's always all sexy and stuff.
scene direction: evil willow just stares blankly out of the cage.
scene direction: cordelia gets up
cordelia: i mean, i more or less knew he was a loser.
scene direction: cordelia sets down the mug
scene direction: cordelia huffily
cordelia: but that doesn't make it okay for you to come around and...
scene direction: cordelia notices evil willow's stare
cordelia: what? do i have something on my neck?
scene direction: evil willow wearily
evil willow: not yet.
scene direction: cordelia worried
cordelia: am i getting a zit?
scene direction: cordelia checks her skin
scene direction: evil willow very bored and tired
evil willow: cordelia, i'm *very* sorry. i realize i was wrong. i'll never steal your boyfriend again.
scene direction: cordelia stung
cordelia: like you could! i should just leave you in there, but i'm a great humanitarian,
scene direction: cordelia gets the keys
cordelia: and you will just have to think of a way to pay me back sometime.
scene direction: she unlocks the cage, turns the handle and pulls the door open. evil willow steps out.
evil willow: okay.
scene direction: evil willow vamps out
evil willow: how about dinner?
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene change: the hall outside the library. the doors burst open, and cordelia shoots out screaming wildly and runs down the hall. cut to a dark empty classroom. cordelia runs in and backs up along two rows of desks, pulling them together as she goes to block evil willow's way.
scene direction: cordelia desperately
cordelia: i didn't mean all that stuff i said before. i want you to have xander. my blessings on you both!
scene direction: evil willow just pushes the desks back apart, making a game of it.
evil willow: i'm *so* over him. i need fresh blood.
scene direction: cordelia runs away screaming through the classroom's back door.
scene change: cut to the hall in front of the library. wesley is walking toward the doors, when another scream from cordelia catches him by surprise. he reacts defensively, dropping his briefcase and spinning round, but quickly recovers himself and starts running in the direction of the scream, abandoning his briefcase, reaching under his jacket for a cross.
scene change: cut to the girls' bathroom. cordelia runs in and realizes she's made a mistake, trapping herself. evil willow strolls in behind her.
evil willow: no more hiding.
scene direction: cordelia backs away as she advances. suddenly wesley jumps out and brandishes his cross in her face.
scene direction: wesley commandingly
wesley: back! creature of the night!
scene direction: evil willow growls angrily.
scene direction: wesley warningly
wesley: leave this place!
evil willow: don't wanna.
scene direction: wesley quickly but nervously reaches into his jacket and pulls out a vial of holy water. evil willow sighs. he holds it up, threatening to throw it on her.
scene direction: evil willow sighs heavily
evil willow: whatever.
scene direction: she turns and leaves. wesley slowly relaxes, heaving a sigh of relief and lowering the cross and the vial. cordelia walks up behind him and lightly touches him on the shoulder. he freaks out, screams and spins around, thrusting the cross and holy water right into cordelia's face.
scene direction: he lowers them when he recognizes her, and tries to catch his breath.
scene direction: cordelia whines apologetically
cordelia: i'm sorry.
scene direction: wesley puts the water away
wesley: no, no.
scene direction: wesley breathes deeply
wesley: a little on edge.
scene direction: wesley bravely
wesley: you know, men in combat.
scene direction: wesley makes a tough face
wesley: grr.
scene direction: wesley concerned
wesley: are you all right?
scene direction: cordelia awed
cordelia: you saved my life. thank you!
scene direction: she flings herself worshipfully at him and throws her arms around him, hugging him tightly.
scene direction: wesley awkwardly
wesley: oh, yes. uh... yes.
scene direction: he is somewhat startled, but enjoys the hug while it lasts. then they both peer out the door.
scene direction: wesley stunned
wesley: was that...?
cordelia: willow.
scene direction: cordelia shakes her head sorrowfully
cordelia: they got willow.
scene direction: cordelia gets over it
scene direction: cordelia brightly
cordelia: so, are you doing anything tonight?
scene direction: wesley is rendered speechless.
scene change: cut to the bronze.
scene direction: anya dispirited
anya: i'm just so tired of being around human beings and all their baggage. i-i don't care if i ever get my powers back.
scene direction: oz gets behind willow, backing her up. willow gulps.
scene direction: anya crosses her arms
anya: i think he
scene direction: anya meaning alfonse
anya: should eat you.
scene direction: willow improvises quickly
willow: this girl has a history of mental problems dating back to early childhood.
scene direction: willow desperately
willow: i'm a blood-sucking fiend!
scene direction: willow pats herself
willow: look at my outfit!
scene direction: alfonse shakes his head in shame
alfonse: a human. i should have smelled it right away.
willow: a human? oh, yeah? could a human do this?
scene direction: she screams at the top of her lungs.
scene direction: anya and alfonse aren't impressed, and respond simultaneously.
anya: sure. yeah. humans do that. yeah.
scene direction: anya shrugs
scene direction: alfonse concurring
alfonse: yeah. yeah, i think, yeah.
scene direction: willow is about ready to panic. suddenly the door to the club is thrown open, and buffy and angel make their entrance. buffy log rolls over the edge of a pool table, grabbing a cue stick along the way, as alfonse runs over to engage her. buffy uses the cue to block a high punch from alfonse and then hits him in the chest with it. then she spins halfway around to face another vampire and jabs him in the gut with the cue. as he doubles over in pain, buffy whirls around and slams the end of the cue into the back of his head.
scene direction: anya looks around at the chaos, and decides it's time to make a break for it. she meets willow on her way, though, who doesn't fancy anya getting off scott free. anya smiles guilelessly at her, but doesn't get away with it. willow grunts as she punches anya hard, sending her to the floor unconscious. unfortunately, the punch really hurts her hand.
willow: ow! ow! ow! happy, but ow!
scene direction: oz snatches her away from the fray and up onto the stage. devon tries to copy angel's earlier move and climb up the stage ropes, but just doesn't have the strength to do it.
scene direction: the customers flee through the now-open front door while angel ducks a half spinning jumping in-to-out crescent kick, shoves the vampire that tried it into a post and kidney-punches him. out of the corner of his eye he spots another vampire coming at him and delivers a side kick to his stomach. he then grabs the one slumped by the post and hurls him through the air into a magazine rack. angel turns back to the other vampire, spins twice and delivers a nasty backhand punch to his face, making him fall face down onto the pool table. angel grabs onto his jacket, yanks him back up and punches him in the face, knocking him down. meanwhile the first vampire is back up behind angel and punches him in the face as he turns to face him.
scene direction: on the stage oz yells back at devon, who's gotten caught in the ropes.
oz: devon, come on!
scene direction: oz leads willow away backstage, but they are blocked by evil willow, just arriving in her vampire guise. she grabs oz by his shirt and smashes him into devon, and the two boys crash to the floor.
scene direction: willow frightened
willow: no more snuggles?
scene direction: evil willow backhand punches her hard, causing her to fall back against the drum set. it makes plenty of noise as she and the cymbals crash loudly to the floor.
scene direction: in the back room, giles and xander wrench the door open just as the guard vampire throws back a fleeing patron. xander grabs him from behind and tries to stake him, but gets thrown off and into a wall. giles double-fists him in the face, but gets thrown back into another wall.
scene direction: xander regains his footing and punches the vampire hard in the face, making his neck snap back, dazing him. he grabs the vampire by the jacket and flips him over onto his back at the base of some stairs.
scene direction: giles rushes in, falls to his knees and stakes him.
scene direction: on the stage evil willow steps over to willow and grabs her around the neck, choking her.
scene direction: over by the pool tables buffy swings her cue around, aiming for alfonse's head, but he grabs the cue and wrests it from her grip. even so, the shock of the blow sends him falling to the floor. another vampire launches a punch at buffy and hits her squarely in the side of the head. she takes it in stride and delivers both a backhand punch and a punch to his jaw. he stumbles against a post, where buffy roundhouse kicks him twice in the face. he tries to punch her, but she grabs onto his arm, sidesteps him and throws him into a rack of cues.
scene direction: on the stage a struggling willow is doing her best to hold her alter ego at bay, but isn't having much success.
scene direction: a vampire does an axe kick at angel, but he rolls out of the way just in time so the vampire's leg lands on the pool table instead of angel's head. angel smashes his arm down on the vampire's knee, audibly breaking it, and then does a backhand punch to his face. the vampire falls backward to the floor. angel reaches onto the pool table and picks up some balls, which he throws at an incoming vampire. they just bounce off of him, and he tries to punch angel, who blocks it with both hands and backhands the vampire in the face, making him stagger back into the pole. the vampire roars and immediately comes back, grabs angel and carries him out of the shot.
scene direction: alfonse swings the cue stick at buffy, but she grabs hold of it and swings it downward and around, wresting it from his grip. she then follows up with a full spinning wheel kick to his face, sending him to the floor. she hears willow cry out from the stage and glimpses her predicament. alfonse gets back to his feet, and buffy uppercuts him with the cue. he goes flying into the pastry bar.
scene direction: on stage evil willow tightens her grip on willow's neck.
scene direction: behind buffy alfonse gets back up, but buffy jams the business end of the cue stick into his chest without even looking back, dusting him.
scene direction: things are looking dire for willow on stage. buffy runs to her aid, smashing the cue into the back of a vampire's head along the way and breaking it, resulting in a sharp makeshift stake. she leaps up onto the stage and is about to stab down hard with it into evil willow's back with it, when willow shouts out to stop her.
scene direction: willow urgently
willow: buffy, no!
scene direction: buffy reacts instantly, holding back just short of penetration, and instead grabs evil willow and yanks her roughly away from willow, restraining her securely. angel is finished with his fight also and hops up onto the stage as well. evil willow realizes that she is now outnumbered. willow stands up and gingerly massages her neck.
scene direction: willow admiringly
willow: nice reflexes.
scene direction: buffy shrugs gracefully
buffy: well, i work out.
scene direction: evil willow to willow, sadly
evil willow: this world's no fun.
scene direction: willow surprised, empathetically
willow: you noticed that, too?
scene change: cut to the factory where evil willow first appeared in this reality.
scene direction: giles, anya and oz finish setting up for the spell to send evil willow back. giles lights the candles. xander steps over to evil willow, but cautiously, not getting too close. angel keeps a wary eye on her from behind.
xander: so, um, in your reality, i'm like this bad-ass vampire, huh?
scene direction: people afraid of me?
scene direction: evil willow just looks askance at him, then rolls her eyes and turns away.
scene direction: xander steps away, chortling gleefully
xander: oh, yeah. i'm bad.
scene direction: oz stands up and walks behind willow and buffy, who are observing evil willow.
scene direction: buffy uncertainly
buffy: i'm not sure about releasing this thing into the wild, will. it is a demon.
scene direction: evil willow checks on angel behind her.
scene direction: willow penitently
willow: i just can't kill her.
scene direction: buffy regretfully
buffy: no. me, neither.
scene direction: willow hesitantly
willow: i mean, i know she's not me. we have a big nothing in common, but... still.
scene direction: buffy understandingly
buffy: there but for the grace of getting bit.
scene direction: willow resolutely
willow: we send her back to her world, and she stands a chance. it's the way it should be anyway.
giles: uh, we're about ready here.
scene direction: willow goes over to evil willow.
scene direction: giles to anya, warningly
giles: don't you try any tricks now, dear.
scene direction: anya sulkily
anya: i don't need tricks.
scene direction: anya arrogantly contemptuous
anya: when i get my powers back, you will all grovel before me.
scene direction: both willows roll their eyes and shake their heads at her delusions of grandeur.
scene direction: giles unimpressed
giles: yes, uh, if you, uh, willows, would like to, uh,
scene direction: giles gestures where they should kneel
giles: complete the circle.
scene direction: willow faces evil willow for the last time.
willow: good luck.
scene direction: willow helpfully
willow: try not to kill people.
scene direction: evil willow doesn't display any emotion, but willow smiles warmly at her and gives her a big hug. evil willow isn't sure what to make of that, but gets into the spirit and does some naughty touching. willow jumps back from her reach.
scene direction: willow shocked
willow: hands! hands!
scene direction: evil willow gives her a naughty, knowing smile. the two of them walk over to join the circle. they kneel down as the camera pulls back. the screen fades to white, and then returns to the ongoing fight in the alternate universe. evil willow materializes and smiles, relieved to be back in her own reality, only to be suddenly grabbed by oz and shoved back onto a broken piece of the wooden cage, effectively impaling her through the heart.
scene direction: evil willow miserably
evil willow: aw, f...
scene direction: she explodes into ashes.
scene direction: the screen flashes back to white and back to sunnydale high. the camera pans down to willow and buffy sitting together on a wall.
buffy: you wanna go out tonight?
willow: strangely, i feel like staying at home...
scene direction: willow sadly
willow: and doing my homework... and flossing... and dying a virgin.
scene direction: buffy sagely
buffy: you know, you can o.d. on virtue.
willow: between me and my evil self, i've got double guilt coupons. i see now where the path of vice leads. i mean, she messed up everything she touched. i don't ever want to be like that.
scene direction: percy comes up to them, a bit nervous
percy: hey. uh, hi.
willow: oh, hi. listen, i didn't have a chance...
scene direction: percy interrupts
percy: okay, so i did the outline for the paper on roosevelt.
scene direction: percy hands it to her
percy: it turns out there were two president roosevelts, so i didn't know exactly which one to do, so i did both.
scene direction: he hands her the other one. both are nicely bound in folders. buffy gives willow a knowing smile. willow just stares at him in stunned amazement.
scene direction: percy respectfully
percy: um, and i know they're kinda, kinda short, but i can flesh them out. oh, and here's the bibliography.
scene direction: percy hands it to her
percy: um, and i can retype that if you want. you just let me know what i did wrong, and i'll get on it.
scene direction: willow is speechless, amazed by his sudden change in attitude. he starts to go, but comes back to lay an apple on the folders in her lap. he leaves again, hopping athletically over a low wall.
scene direction: buffy innocently
buffy: you wanna go out tonight?
scene direction: willow hopefully
willow: 9:00 sound good 