scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: a sunnydale cemetery. faith and buffy both fall backwards onto the mound of a fresh grave, fighting a pair of leather-uniformed vampires. but this doesn't stop faith from wanting to continue her conversation with buffy.
scene direction: faith to buffy, struggling
faith: so, what, you're telling me never?!
scene direction: buffy also struggling
buffy: faith! really, now is not the time!
faith: i'm curious! never ever?!
scene direction: the two slayers both kick up with their legs and send the vampires rolling over and off of them, and then do back rolls up to a standing position.
scene direction: faith to buffy
faith: come on, really. all this time, and not even once?
scene direction: she blocks a high punch from her assailant, grabs onto his shoulder and flips him forward. he lands hard on his back.
buffy: how many times do i have to say it?
scene direction: she ducks a swing.
buffy: i have never...
scene direction: she does a backhand punch at her attacker.
buffy: ...done it...
scene direction: the vampire staggers backward into a lamppost from the force of her punch. buffy does a full spin toward him.
buffy: ...with xander!
scene direction: she jams her stake home, and the demon bursts into ashes. buffy looks over at faith, still fighting.
buffy: he's just a friend.
scene direction: faith leaps at her assailant, does a log roll in midair and comes down hard on him with her knee digging into his back, shoving him into the ground. she raises her stake and plunges it into his back, dusting him instantly. she gets up and steps over to meet up with buffy.
faith: so? what are friends for? i mean, i'm sorry,
scene direction: faith smiles sexily
faith: it's just, all this sweating-nightly, side-by-side action, and you never put in for a little after-hours
scene direction: faith thrusts her pelvis forward and grunts
faith: 
scene direction: buffy raises her eyebrows
buffy: thanks for the poetry. and, no. i love xander. i just don't... *love* xander.
scene direction: buffy looks at the ground
buffy: besides, i think it ruins friendship to do that stuff.
scene direction: she takes a closer look at the boot prints on the muddy ground.
faith: you think too much.
scene direction: faith starts to leave
scene direction: buffy grabs faith's arm, looking down
buffy: hey. there's one more.
faith: how do you know?
buffy: i think too much.
scene direction: the two of them start to walk, following the extra set of prints, which lead behind a gravestone.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: okay. count of three. one...
scene direction: faith jumps ahead and shoulder-rolls over the gravestone. the vampire isn't there, but he comes running at her. he is also dressed in the leather uniform. buffy disapprovingly watches the fight start.
buffy: three.
scene direction: faith tries to do a roundhouse kick at the vampire, but he catches her leg right before it connects with his head. he grabs her shoulder, spins halfway around and throws her against a tall gravestone. she hits the ground hard and immediately starts to get back up. buffy runs around them to catch the demon from behind as he looks down at faith and pulls out two swords, one with a long blade, the other short. he hears buffy coming, though, and spins his head around to see her. she stops in her tracks, holding her stake up in her hand. the vampire swings his long sword in a wide arc and slices off the tip of the stake. buffy jumps in surprise, but quickly drops what's left of the stake as the vampire swings his sword down on her. she high blocks the attack with her left arm, grabs his left arm with her right hand, grabs his right arm with her left hand and brings both of his arms down hard, forcing him to drop the swords. she high punches him in the head and tries to follow up with a double roundhouse kick with alternating legs. the vampire knife-hand blocks both kicks. he gains the upper hand, grabbing buffy by the shoulders and tries to get in closer for a bite. she struggles to keep him at bay. finally faith runs up behind him and thrusts her stake into his back. he screams and throws up his hands, then crumbles to ashes between the two girls, leaving faith smiling at buffy, and buffy leaning against a gravestone catching her breath. faith takes a step toward her, raising her hand for a high five.
faith: nicely diverted, b!
scene direction: she stops mid-step when buffy doesn't return the gesture.
scene direction: buffy panting
buffy: diverted? that was me fighting for my life, miss attention span.
scene direction: faith sighs and turns to go
faith: this isn't a tupperware party. it's a little hard to plan.
scene direction: buffy follows
buffy: the count of three isn't a plan. it's sesame street.
scene direction: faith stops and faces buffy
faith: hey, they're toast and we're here, so it couldn't have been too bad, right?
scene direction: faith checks her arm
faith: who were those guys, anyways?
buffy: i don't know.
scene direction: buffy sniffs
buffy: they didn't seem local.
scene direction: buffy looks where the swords were
buffy: look, why don't we grab the weapons. maybe giles...
scene direction: the swords aren't there anymore. buffy gives faith a confused look.
scene change: cut to the mayor's office. mr. trick drops the two swords on his desk.
trick: check these out.
scene direction: the mayor is busy reading the funnies, and ignores him while he finishes reading his favorite strip.
scene direction: mayor wilkins chuckles and shakes his head
mayor wilkins: i, i just love the family circus! that p.j., he's getting to be quite a handful.
scene direction: he drops the paper on his desk. allan gives him an acknowledging nod and weak smile. the mayor now looks at the swords lying on his desk.
mayor wilkins: well... i haven't seen anything like this in, uh...
scene direction: mayor wilkins looks up at allan
mayor wilkins: well, a good long while.
scene direction: mayor wilkins to trick
mayor wilkins: where's the owner of these fine implements?
trick: the common term is 'slain'. but i've been seeing this breed around. are we expecting any trouble?
scene direction: mayor wilkins smiles up at trick
mayor wilkins: do you like family circus?
scene direction: trick seriously
trick: i like marmaduke.
scene direction: mayor wilkins disgusted
mayor wilkins: oh!
scene direction: mayor wilkins shivers
mayor wilkins: eww! he's always on the furniture. unsanitary.
trick: nobody can tell marmaduke what to do.
scene direction: trick grins
trick: that's my kinda dog.
scene direction: allan smiling eagerly
allan: i like to read cathy.
scene direction: mr. trick and the mayor both give him a look. allan swallows nervously.
allan: so, uh, what ab-bout these swords? w-what should we do about that?
scene direction: mayor wilkins inspects them
mayor wilkins: well, let's just keep an eye out. we've got the dedication coming up in a few days. we certainly can't have anything interfering with that.
scene direction: allan fidgeting
allan: well, maybe we should postpone the... the-the dedication.
scene direction: the mayor gives him an incredulous look. trick looks at him intensely.
trick: i believe the honorable mayor *hates* that idea.
scene direction: mayor wilkins stands up
mayor wilkins: the dedication...
scene direction: mayor wilkins walks toward the liquor cabinet
mayor wilkins: is the final step before my ascension.
scene direction: mayor wilkins allan jumps out of his way
mayor wilkins: i have waited longer than you can imagine for this.
scene direction: mayor wilkins opens the cabinet, opens a box of moist towelettes
mayor wilkins: after the hundred days,
scene direction: mayor wilkins pulls out a towelette
mayor wilkins: i'll be on a higher plane.
scene direction: mayor wilkins steps back to allan, wiping his hands
mayor wilkins: and i'll have no more need for...
scene direction: mayor wilkins folds up the used towelette
mayor wilkins: well, let's just say i won't be concerned... with the little things.
scene direction: mayor wilkins holds it up to allan, who takes it, and goes back to his desk.
mayor wilkins: mr. trick, watch these people. anything you find out about them, well, let's just see that that information reaches the slayers.
scene direction: mayor wilkins takes the short sword from trick, looks it over
mayor wilkins: who knows? with any luck, they'll kill each other. then everyone's a winner.
scene direction: mayor wilkins looks at allan
mayor wilkins: everyone, of course, meaning me.
scene direction: mayor wilkins chuckles
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: sunnydale high school.
xander: willow, what are these?
willow: they're early admission packets.
scene change: cut to the student lounge. xander and oz are sitting on one of the couches across from willow and buffy on the other. the table between them is piled up with college acceptance letters and application forms.
scene direction: xander goes through a stack of them, reading off the university names.
xander: harvard... yale... wesleyan... some german polytechnical institute whose name i, uh...
scene direction: xander tries to read it
xander: i can't pronounce.
scene direction: xander drops the packets, leans back
xander: is anyone else intimidated?
scene direction: xander looks at oz
xander: 'cause i'm just expecting thin slips of paper with the words 'no way' written in crayon.
oz: they're typing those now.
scene direction: xander nods
xander: hmm.
scene direction: willow and buffy are paging through some of the brochures.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: i'm so overwhelmed! i-i got in! to actual colleges!
scene direction: and, a-and they're wooing me! they're pitching woo!
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: the wooing stage is always fun.
scene direction: willow sighs
willow: but it's weird. now, rejection i can handle 'cause of the years of training, but this...
xander: i feel your pain, will. like right now, i'm torn between the fast-growing fields of appliance repair and motel management. of course, i'm still waiting to hear back from the, uh, corndog emporium, so...
scene direction: he crosses his fingers and then holds his hands together in a sarcastic gesture of prayer. buffy gives him a giggle.
buffy: well, i think it's great. early admission.
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: now there's nothing standing between you and a brilliant future.
oz: well, if i may suggest, graduate. gettin' left back: not the thrill ride you'd expect.
scene direction: cordelia approaches from behind the boys.
cordelia: that's so cute! planning life as a loser?
scene direction: cordelia xander glances up at her
cordelia: most people just turn out that way, but you're really taking charge.
xander: the comedy stylings of miss cordelia chase, everyone.
scene direction: xander looks up at her
xander: who, uh, incidentally, won't be needing a higher education when she markets her own very successful line of hooker wear.
scene direction: he checks out her outfit, which is typically revealing.
cordelia: well, xander, i could dress more like you, but,
scene direction: cordelia in mock sympathy
cordelia: oh, my father has a job.
scene direction: she immediately leaves. xander watches her go, once again having nothing to say.
xander: i'm not gonna waste the perfect comeback on you now.
scene direction: xander points at her
xander: but don't think i don't have it.
scene direction: xander miffed
xander: oh, yes! its time will come!
scene direction: he turns back to the group and pretends cordelia doesn't exist.
xander: so, life beyond high school.
scene direction: xander fishes for sympathy
xander: anyone, please... chime in.
buffy: i hear it's nice. and a place i'll never go if i don't pass mrs. taggart's chemistry test tomorrow.
scene direction: buffy looks at willow
willow: oh! i can help. chemistry's easy. it's a lot like witchcraft, only less newt. so whadaya say? study jam, my house, tonight?
buffy: i'm there.
scene direction: the bell rings, and they all get ready to go to class.
buffy: oh. i have to go see giles, report on last night's patrol.
willow: oh, yeah. he said he wanted to talk to you.
buffy: what about? is he okay?
scene direction: willow slightly concerned
willow: he's looked better.
scene change: cut to the library. giles is sitting on the study table facing the doors with his arms crossed and looking very bored while a somewhat foppish, well tailored young man goes through some books in a box on the table.
wesley: of course, training procedures have been updated quite a bit since your day. much greater emphasis on field work.
scene direction: giles very bored
giles: really?
wesley: oh, yes.
scene direction: wesley walks around to another box
wesley: not all books and theory nowadays.
scene direction: wesley reaches in for some books
wesley: i have, in fact, faced two vampires myself. under controlled circumstances, of course.
scene direction: giles uncrosses his arms
giles: well, no danger of finding those here.
scene direction: wesley looks up
wesley: vampires?
giles: controlled circumstances.
scene direction: giles sees buffy enter
giles: hello, buffy.
scene direction: wesley overhears, looks at her and smiles condescendingly.
wesley: well...
scene direction: wesley steps to the head of the table
wesley: hello.
scene direction: wesley smiles smugly
scene direction: buffy gives him a quick look up and down.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: new watcher?
giles: new watcher.
scene direction: wesley takes a step toward her and holds out his hand in greeting.
wesley: wesley wyndam-pryce.
scene direction: buffy makes no move to return the gesture, but continues to eye him critically. a moment later he steps back again.
wesley: it's very nice to meet you.
scene direction: buffy steps over to giles, never removing her eyes from wesley.
buffy: is he evil?
scene direction: wesley perplexed
wesley: evil?
buffy: the last one was evil.
scene direction: wesley thoughtfully
wesley: oh, yes. gwendolyn post. we all heard. no. mr. giles has checked my credentials rather thoroughly and phoned the council, but i'm glad to see you're on the ball as well.
scene direction: wesley takes a secretive step toward her
wesley: a good slayer is a cautious slayer.
scene direction: wesley steps back
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: is he evil?
giles: not in the strictest sense.
wesley: well, i'm glad that's cleared up.
scene direction: wesley walks around the table
wesley: as i'm sure none of us is anxious to waste any time on pleasantries,
scene direction: wesley picks up his watcher diary
wesley: why don't you tell me everything about last night's patrol.
scene direction: wesley flips to a blank page
buffy: vampires.
scene direction: wesley inquiringly
wesley: yes?
buffy: killed 'em.
scene direction: wesley fishing for details
wesley: anything else you can tell me?
scene direction: buffy glances at giles. he nods that she should cooperate.
buffy: uh...
scene direction: buffy thinks
buffy: one of them had swords. i don't think he was with the other two.
scene direction: wesley something clicks
wesley: swords?
scene direction: he sets down his diary, goes back to his box of books and begins to rifle through them.
wesley: swords...
scene direction: he finds the book he wants and begins to leaf through it.
wesley: one long, one short?
buffy: mmm. both pointy.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: with, like, jewels and things.
giles: sounds familiar.
scene direction: wesley comes back with the book
wesley: it should.
scene direction: he holds it out in front of giles, who takes it and reads.
giles: el eliminati. fifteenth century...
scene direction: wesley interrupts
wesley: fifteenth century duelist cult, deadly in their day. their numbers dwindled in later centuries due to an increase in anti-vampire activity and a lot of pointless dueling.
scene direction: buffy and giles both look up at him, surprised by his rudeness.
wesley: they eventually became the acolytes of a demon called balthazar, who brought them to the new world, specifically here.
scene direction: giles closes the book, hands it back
giles: you seem to know a lot about them.
wesley: i didn't get this job because of my looks.
scene direction: wesley goes back to his box
buffy: i really, really believe that.
scene direction: buffy nods
scene direction: wesley looks at her snidely
wesley: i've researched this town's history extensively.
giles: so why have we not seen them before this?
scene direction: wesley comes back
wesley: they were driven out a hundred years ago. happily, balthazar was killed. i don't know by whom.
buffy: and they're back 'cause...?
wesley: balthazar had an amulet purported to give him strength. when he was killed, it was taken by a wealthy landowner named...
scene direction: wesley sees their looks
wesley: i don't want to bore you with the details.
buffy: a little bit late.
wesley: ...named gleaves. it was buried with him, and i believe the few remaining eliminati are probably looking for it. for sentimental value.
giles: a-and you don't think that this, uh, amulet poses any threat?
scene direction: wesley steps back to his box
wesley: oh, no, not at all. nonetheless, we may as well keep it from them. buffy, you will go to the gleaves family crypt tonight and fetch the amulet.
scene direction: wesley reaches in
buffy: i will?
scene direction: wesley pauses
wesley: are you not used to being given orders?
buffy: whenever giles sends me on a mission, he always says 'please'. and afterwards i get a cookie.
scene direction: she grins at giles, who smiles back modestly.
scene direction: wesley comes back
wesley: i don't feel we're getting off on quite the right foot.
scene direction: just then they hear footsteps, and look up to see faith walk in.
wesley: ah. this is perhaps faith.
scene direction: faith stops and critically looks wesley up and down.
faith: new watcher?
buffy and giles: new watcher.
scene direction: faith snickers
faith: screw that.
scene direction: she turns right around and walks out. wesley feels put off.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: now, why didn't *i* just say that?
scene direction: giles gently
giles: uh, buffy, would you...
buffy: i'll see if i can get her back.
scene direction: buffy slips off of the table and walks out
buffy: don't say anything terribly interesting while i'm gone.
scene direction: wesley watches her go. he and giles both reach into their pockets for handkerchiefs, take off their glasses and begin to clean them.
wesley: they'll get used to me.
scene direction: giles notices their tandem actions, immediately stops cleaning and puts his glasses back on before wesley has a chance to turn around. when he does, giles just smiles up at him, covering his handkerchief with his hands.
scene change: cut to the quad. buffy catches up with faith as they come walking around a corner.
buffy: faith, wait. look, i know this new guy's a dork, but...
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: well, i have nothing to follow that. he's pretty much just a dork.
faith: you're actually gonna take orders from him?
buffy: that's the job. what else can we do?
faith: whatever we want. we're slayers, girlfriend, the chosen two. why should we let *him* take all the fun out of it?
buffy: oh, that would be tragic, taking the fun out of slaying, stabbing, beheading.
faith: oh, like you don't dig it.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: i don't.
faith: you're a liar. i've *seen* you. tell me staking a vamp doesn't get you a little bit juiced. come on, say it.
scene direction: she stops and folds her arms, waiting for buffy's answer. buffy can't help but smile, and looks down to hide it.
scene direction: faith laughs
faith: you can't fool me. the look in your eyes right after a kill? you just get hungry for more.
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: you're way off base.
faith: tell me that if you don't get in a good slaying, after a while, you just start itching for some vamp to show up so you can give him a good
scene direction: faith grunts and punches
faith: 
buffy: again with the grunting. you realize i'm not comfortable with this.
faith: hey, slaying's what we were built for. if you're not enjoying it, you're doing something wrong.
scene direction: faith starts to leave
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: what about the assignment?
scene direction: faith looks back
faith: tell you what:
scene direction: faith points
faith: you do the homework, and i'll copy yours.
scene direction: faith grins and goes
scene change: cut to the gleaves family crypt that night. buffy slowly walks up to it and turns on her maglite. she steps up to the door and opens it. cut inside. the large room is dark and dusty. in the center are two stone coffins. there are several drawers on one wall and a few urns on shelves. buffy takes the steps down into the room and goes to the first coffin. she pushes the heavy lid aside and looks into it with the flashlight. all that's left of the body is the skeleton and a pile of hair and fibers.
buffy: strike one. no amulet there.
scene direction: she goes to the next coffin and pushes its lid aside. the body in this one has dried out and looks mummified. the clothes are still more or less intact, and around its neck hangs the amulet.
buffy: game over.
scene direction: she reaches in for it, but jerks back up when she hears noises coming from outside. through the door she sees torches coming closer and hears voices. she quickly jumps up onto the first coffin, rolls into it and twists off her maglite just as vincent, the leader of the eliminati, pushes the door open. he looks around, but doesn't notice when buffy pulls the lid of the coffin back into place. vincent walks down the stairs and goes over to the open coffin. his troops follow him. inside her coffin, buffy looks over at the skull beside her, but remains quiet.
scene direction: vincent looks into the open coffin, sees the amulet and yanks it from the body's neck. he takes a good look at it and smiles at his troops, indicating success for their mission. in the other coffin buffy remains absolutely still. the eliminati start to make their way out. when buffy hears the door close she pushes the lid back open and climbs out, only to be startled by faith's hand on her shoulder.
buffy: faith!
faith: what are you doing, hiding in there?
buffy: looking for the amulet. wasn't counting on the special guest stars. six against one.
scene direction: buffy gestures at the coffin
buffy: hence the hiding.
faith: well, it's six against two now, so come on.
scene direction: she rushes out of the crypt. buffy climbs out of the coffin and follows her out. cut outside. they come out in time to see the last two eliminati jump down through a manhole into the sewers below. faith makes tracks for it.
buffy: wait. stop. think!
scene direction: faith stops, defiantly
faith: no, no, no!
scene direction: faith starts again
scene direction: buffy chases her
buffy: it's a manhole. tight space, no escape, six against two, not unlike three against one.
faith: and there might be more,
scene direction: faith grabs buffy's arm
faith: so come on.
scene direction: faith lets go
buffy: you're just gonna go down there. that's your plan.
faith: who said i had a plan? i don't know how many's down there, but i wanna find out. and i'll know when i land. if you don't come in after me,
scene direction: faith shrugs and smiles
faith: i might die!
scene direction: without any further hesitation she jumps in. buffy can't believe it, but realizes she can't let her do it alone, and jumps in after her.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: the library. wesley is at the study table going through a mass of books.
scene direction: giles paces nervously.
wesley: these are all the diaries, then? yours included?
scene direction: giles in a worried tone
giles: that's everything. knock yourself out.
scene direction: please?
scene direction: wesley flips through giles' diary
wesley: oh, yes! here's your first entry.
scene direction: 'slayer is willful and insolent.' (smirks) that would be our girl, wouldn't it?
scene direction: giles continues pacing, takes off his glasses
giles: well, you have to get to know her.
wesley: mm.
scene direction: wesley reads
wesley: 'her abuse of the english language is such that i understand only every other sentence.'
scene direction: wesley looks up
wesley: oh, this is going to make fascinating reading.
scene direction: giles checks his watch
giles: she should be back by now.
scene direction: wesley checks his watch
wesley: not to fret.
scene direction: wesley reaches for a mint
wesley: my mission scenario has her back in one minute.
scene direction: wesley pops the mint
wesley: shouldn't be any trouble.
scene change: cut to the sewers. buffy and faith have their hands full fighting the eliminati. buffy does a low front snap kick to one of them on the ground. faith backhand punches another, and his head snaps hard to the side. buffy grabs yet another and shoves him aside.
buffy: we're surrounded!
faith: you noticed that, too?!
scene direction: faith backhand punches another eliminatus. buffy ducks a vampire's swing and does a roundhouse kick to the back of his knee, making him collapse to the floor. faith sidesteps her attacker, grabs his arm, swings him around and throws him toward a wall. buffy does a full spinning hook kick to an incoming vampire and follows up with a roundhouse kick to his head. another one comes at her from the side and tries to bring his sword down on her from above, but she steps back in time, and it just clangs on the floor.
scene direction: faith throws her vampire up against a wall, and he collapses to the floor. she does a half-spinning hook kick to another eliminatus behind her, and he falls dazed onto a raised area. another vampire jumps up onto it and leaps at faith. she sidesteps him and pulls him down over the other one.
scene direction: buffy does a back elbow jab at a vampire's face, causing him to step backwards and trip over a fallen vampire. another one jumps into the fray and tries to punch her, but she middle blocks him, grabs onto his arm and throws him up against the rock wall. he tries to come at her again, but she side kicks him soundly in the gut, forcing him back up against the wall. the eliminatus who was down is up again, and she front snap kicks him, knocking him hard onto his back.
scene direction: faith turns around just in time to get punched in the face by vincent.
scene direction: he tries to punch her again, but she ducks it and rises back up to roundhouse kick him in the side of the head.
scene direction: buffy blocks two punches from the vampire against the wall and punches him in the face and again in the gut. he goes down.
scene direction: faith does a half spinning, jumping out-to-in crescent kick to the head of one of them. then she high blocks a punch from one behind her.
scene direction: buffy gets a roundhouse kick in the head and falls to the ground by a pool of water. her attacker advances on her, and she roundhouse kicks him in the back of the knee, making him lose his balance.
scene direction: faith punches one in the head, but he comes back with a punch to faith's gut and grabs her.
faith: lemme go!
scene direction: he shoves her hard against a concrete wall. buffy sees her predicament and throws her stake into the vampire's back as she gets up from the floor. he bursts into ashes. faith gives buffy a smile. however, with her attention on faith, buffy doesn't notice the one behind her, and he grabs her and holds her still for vincent. he holds out his long sword, pointing it at her chest.
vincent: let's settle this honorably.
scene direction: buffy jumps up against the one holding her and does an out-to-in low crescent kick, knocking the sword out of vincent's hand. it goes flying into the pool of water. then she shrugs off the one holding her, and he falls to the floor. vincent grabs hold of her, though, and tries to thrust at her with his short sword. she jerks out of the way in time and grabs hold of his arm, but he uses this to his advantage and grabs her around the back with his other arm, pinning her against the edge of the pool.
vincent: well, then, let's just settle it.
scene direction: he dunks her head into the water. she struggles to get back up, but can't get a good grip on anything in the filthy water. in the meantime, another vampire gets faith in a full nelson hold. she sees buffy struggling in the water.
faith: buffy!
scene direction: faith struggles with her assailant
faith: you son of a bitch!
scene direction: vincent keeps holding buffy's head under water. she struggles valiantly to get up, but just can't. it isn't much longer before she starts to get weak from lack of oxygen and stops struggling, apparently passing out.
scene direction: vincent holds her under for another few seconds, then lets go and turns his attention to faith. buffy remains motionless in the water. vincent grins widely at faith, who keeps struggling, but to no avail.
scene direction: suddenly buffy leaps up, vincent's long sword in hand, and swings it around at his head. he's too quick, though, and ducks it, but is left off balance in a crouch.
buffy: i hate it when they drown me.
scene direction: she swings at him again, but he reacts instantly, somersaulting out of the way and back to his feet. he faces her wielding his short sword. she makes quick work of it, knocking it out of his hand with her first swing. she swings at him again widely, but he manages to dodge her.
scene direction: faith breaks out of the nelson hold, spins around and punches the vampire in the face. he staggers against the wall. she grabs him and pulls him around, and he flies up and over the small raised area.
faith: b! gotta go!
scene direction: buffy misses another swing, but has a determined look on her face.
buffy: we came for the amulet.
scene direction: she jabs the sword straight at vincent, getting the tip right between the chain holding the amulet at his waist. she lifts the sword, drawing the chain out from under his belt, and it slides down the length of the blade to the hilt. vincent is freaked by her accuracy and hightails it out of there. buffy pulls the amulet from the sword and holds it in her hand. faith comes up next to her.
scene direction: faith breathing heavily
faith: tell me you don't get off on this!
scene direction: buffy smiles at the amulet
buffy: it didn't suck.
scene change: cut to the library. wesley has the amulet in hand and inspects it under a magnifying glass. giles stands in his office doorway.
wesley: well... looks authentic enough.
scene direction: wesley looks up
wesley: of course, there are tests to be made before actual verification.
buffy: how about verifying that your 'nearly extinct' cult was out in magnum force last night? faith and i got into a serious party situation.
giles: are you alright?
buffy: i had to lather, rinse, and repeat about five million times to get the sewer out of my hair, but otherwise, i'm of the good. thank you for asking.
scene direction: she gives wesley a look, making it very clear he should have asked as well.
wesley: perhaps there were a few more than we'd anticipated, but i'd expect you to be ready for anything.
scene direction: wesley looks her in the eye
wesley: remember the three key words for any slayer: preparation... preparation...
scene direction: preparation.
buffy: that's one word three times.
scene direction: the school bell rings. buffy gets up.
buffy: i have a chem test. so sad that i'm actually happy about that.
scene direction: buffy starts out
buffy: giles, we need to talk.
scene direction: wesley stands up pompously
wesley: buffy...
scene direction: wesley she stops, but doesn't face him
wesley: i must ask you to remember that i am your watcher.
scene direction: wesley she faces him
wesley: from now on, anything you have to say about slaying you will say to me.
scene direction: the only thing you need discuss with mr. giles is overdue book fees.
scene direction: understood?
scene direction: buffy turns to giles
buffy: we'll talk.
giles: of course.
scene direction: buffy leaves for her test.
scene direction: wesley to giles
wesley: you're not helping.
scene direction: giles dripping with sarcasm
giles: no. i feel just sick about it.
scene direction: he takes off his glasses and goes into his office. wesley is incensed.
scene change: cut to chemistry class. mrs. taggart passes out the exam booklets. buffy is at the second to last table by the windows. she is twisted around in her seat, talking quietly to willow and xander, who are sitting at the last table.
buffy: it was intense. it was like i just... let go and became this force. i just didn't care anymore.
willow: yeah, i know what that's like.
buffy: i don't think you can! it's kind of a slayer thing. i don't even think i'm explaining it well.
xander: you're explaining it a lot, though.
scene direction: mrs. taggart hands xander and willow their tests. buffy turns around.
mrs. taggart: alright. you have one period to fill out your test booklets. periodic charts are located on the back.
scene direction: mrs. taggart walks toward the front
mrs. taggart: you're on the honor system, so remember, no talking.
scene direction: buffy turns back to willow and xander.
buffy: you see, the thing was, faith knew i didn't even wanna go down there...
scene direction: mrs. taggart interrupts
mrs. taggart: ahem. ms. summers?
scene direction: buffy faces the front and gestures that she's buttoning her lips now.
scene direction: mrs. taggart to the class
mrs. taggart: you have one hour.
scene direction: she gives buffy another look and then leaves the room. buffy immediately turns back to willow and xander.
buffy: okay, so the best part...
scene direction: willow interrupts, concerned
willow: buffy. test? you know. remember? the thing you didn't come over to study for?
scene direction: buffy seems to get it
buffy: right. got it.
scene direction: she turns back to her test, but can't resist, and turns around again.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: sorry. okay, so we're down there, in the sewers, and faith
scene direction: buffy xander's eye twitches
buffy: got three of them on her at once...
xander: hey! whoa! can we resume buffy's 'ode to faith' later, like when i'm not actively multiple-choicing?
scene direction: buffy realizes
buffy: how come your eye twitches every time i say faith's name?
scene direction: xander twitches his eye
scene direction: xander defensively
xander: what?
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: no, it doesn't.
scene direction: buffy leans in closer to him, her eyes intently watching his face.
buffy: faith.
scene direction: his eye twitches, and he slaps his hand over it.
xander: cut it out! we got a test to take, okay? and i'm highly caffeinated, and i'm trying to concentrate. some of us actually care about school. you know.
scene direction: buffy looks to willow, but she's concentrating on her test. buffy finally realizes that she's not going to be allowed to continue her story, and settles down to take her test. she opens the booklet, but is interrupted, along with the rest of the class, by faith rapping on the window pane trying to get buffy's attention. faith lifts the sash and leans in.
scene direction: faith smiles
faith: hey, girlfriend.
scene direction: faith looks around
faith: bad time?
scene direction: she leans over to the next window, wipes the dust from it with her sleeve, exhales to fog it and uses her index fingers to draw a heart with a stake through it. she looks at buffy, smiles and bounces her eyebrows. buffy considers for only a moment before deciding to blow off the test. she slides down from her lab stool and heads for the window.
scene direction: willow and xander are shocked.
willow: no, sh-she can't!
scene direction: faith smiles and leans back in to wait for her partner.
willow: y-you can't! can you?
scene direction: buffy ignores her and climbs out of the window. faith lowers the sash after buffy has climbed out. willow can't believe what just happened.
scene direction: cut outside. the slayers walk away from the building.
buffy: what's up?
faith: vampires.
buffy: uh, faith, unless there's a total eclipse in the next five minutes, it's daylight.
faith: good for us, bad for them. found a nest.
scene direction: buffy smiles, suddenly comprehending
buffy: has potential.
scene change: cut to the vampire nest. it's gloomy. only a few rays of sunlight are getting in. there are vampires lying all over the floor waiting out the day. buffy and faith kick in the door. bright sunlight washes in and onto one of them, who quickly bursts into flames. the lot of them scramble to their feet and begin to run. the slayers smile into the nest.
faith: rise and shine, people.
buffy: it's your wake-up call.
scene direction: they both pull out stakes and run in for a good fight.
scene change: cut to the bronze that evening. faith and buffy are on the dance floor gyrating to the hard techno sound of "chinese burn", performed by curve.
scene direction: three boys come over to them and dance around them. the camera shows a brief view from above of the two girls surrounded by the boys. they pretty much ignore the guys and just hump the air around them. angel walks under the stairs to the edge of the dance floor and stops to watch, a look of deep concern on his face. the camera shows another brief shot of them from above. eventually buffy notices angel standing at the side. when he sees her notice he makes a move to go. buffy squeezes out from the crowd to go to him. faith doesn't miss a beat and starts to paw at the boys, keeping them well entertained.
lyrics: she burns friends like a piece of wood when buffy reaches angel she jumps up on him and wraps her arms around his neck and her legs around his hips. angel supports her at the waist.
buffy: hey! you're not leaving, are you?
lyrics: and she's jealous of me because she never could angel:
scene direction: lyrics glances over at faith and the boys
lyrics: i saw you making friends.
scene direction: buffy glances dismissively
buffy: them?
lyrics: hold herself up without a spine buffy:
scene direction: lyrics faces him, smiling
lyrics: boys! i like you.
lyrics: and she'll look me up when she's doing fine angel reacts in his usual somber way. buffy hops down off of him.
scene direction: buffy coyly teasing
buffy: what's the matter? you're not afraid of little me, are ya?
scene direction: angel seriously
angel: we better sit down. come on.
scene direction: he leads her away to a small alcove behind the stairs.
buffy: i can sense this is a business trip.
scene direction: angel sits. buffy plops down next to him.
scene direction: buffy flippantly
buffy: what's the what?
angel: balthazar.
scene direction: buffy snuggles close to him
buffy: dead demon.
angel: not as dead as you think.
scene direction: he gets up and sits across from her, putting some distance between them.
angel: word on the street puts him in the packing warehouse on devereau. he's looking for...
buffy: his amulet. it's supposed to restore his strength.
angel: from what i'm hearing, that's not something we'd like to see happen.
buffy: no problem. we got the amulet.
angel: i know. i spoke to giles, but he said you gave it to someone.
scene direction: wesley pokes his head around the stairs and finds them.
scene direction: wesley points accusingly
wesley: ah. there you are.
scene direction: buffy mockingly
buffy: ah. speak of the really annoying person.
scene direction: wesley looks around
wesley: you're certainly giving me a run for my money.
scene direction: wesley sits next to her, whispers
wesley: i think we ought to establish that if you're going to go out slaying, you leave me a number where i can contact you.
angel: where's the amulet?
scene direction: wesley snaps his head around and looks at angel in surprise.
wesley: who are you?
angel: a friend. do you have it?
scene direction: wesley smugly
wesley: it's somewhere safe.
scene direction: buffy looks at his jacket, reaches in and pulls out the amulet.
wesley: how did you know?
buffy: it pooches your jacket.
scene direction: she tosses it to angel.
scene direction: wesley protests
wesley: now, hang on a minute...
scene direction: angel holds it up
angel: walking around with this thing is like wearing a target.
buffy: you're gonna put it somewhere safe
scene direction: buffy to wesley
buffy: that's actually safe?
scene direction: angel stands up
angel: yeah. i'll do it now.
scene direction: buffy stands also
buffy: i'll do some recon on balthazar.
scene direction: wesley joins them in standing
scene direction: wesley incredulously
wesley: if i may... balthazar is dead. am i the only one that remembers that?
scene direction: they ignore him. angel leans over and gives buffy a kiss.
angel: be careful.
buffy: you know me.
scene direction: angel sternly
angel: i mean it.
scene direction: they both go in opposite directions, leaving wesley behind and very confused.
wesley: what's going on?
scene direction: buffy walks onto the dance floor and grabs faith. she pulls her out of the crowd and toward the door. faith lets herself be led away, but points back at the boys.
faith: call me!
scene direction: the guys are bummed to see her go.
scene change: cut to the packing warehouse.
balthazar: let me tell you what i see.
scene direction: cut inside. balthazar is enormously obese with very pale, pasty, slimy skin. he sits suspended in a tank of filthy water, while one of the eliminati pours ladle after ladle of it over him in an effort to keep his skin moist.
balthazar: i see fear... and remorse... and the pitiful look of faces that cry out for mercy! but what i *don't* see is what i *want* to see, and that's... my... amulet!
vampire: lord balthazar, we found it! we had it! but the slayers...
balthazar: already i'm bored.
scene direction: he holds out his hands, and the air between him and the vampires is suddenly disturbed. the vampire floats involuntarily over to balthazar, who grabs his throat and squeezes until his neck breaks and he slumps lifelessly to the floor. vincent watches, extremely worried that he may be next.
balthazar: vincent... come here.
scene direction: he wheezes hard as vincent slowly approaches.
balthazar: closer.
scene direction: vincent leans toward him.
balthazar: closer.
scene direction: vincent leans close enough to be spat upon. balthazar puts his hands on vincent's shoulders.
balthazar: let me tell you... what i want to see.
scene direction: cut outside. faith and buffy look for the packing warehouse and find it.
scene direction: they look in through a crack in the door and see balthazar surrounded by the eliminati.
buffy: okay, we got ten, maybe twelve bad guys and one big demon in desperate need of a stairmaster.
faith: i say we take 'em all, hard and fast and now.
buffy: we need a little more firepower than none. we should head back to the library.
faith: well, i guess jacuzzi boy isn't going anywhere.
scene direction: faith looks around
faith: i just... wish we had...
scene direction: across the street at the end of the alley she sees meyer's sport and tackle shop. she points buffy in that direction.
faith: ah. that is too good.
scene direction: they head for the store.
scene change: cut to the store. faith kicks in the front door. cut inside. they walk through quickly. looking for anything useful to them. faith finds the archery counter.
faith: ah. score.
scene direction: she spies a small crossbow, complete with 4x optical sights, on display beneath the glass countertop. she breaks the glass with her elbow, reaches in and pulls it out.
buffy: think they're insured?
faith: strangely, not my priority.
scene direction: faith checks the trigger mechanism
faith: when are ya gonna get this, b? life for a slayer is very simple:
scene direction: faith walks to a vertical case
faith: want...
scene direction: faith breaks it
faith: take...
scene direction: faith reaches in for a set of nun- chucks
faith: have.
scene direction: faith stuffs them into her pants
scene direction: buffy seems a bit unsure, but changes her mind when she spies a case of hunting knives.
buffy: want...
scene direction: buffy walks to the case
buffy: take...
scene direction: buffy stops in front of it
buffy: have.
scene direction: she punches the glass with her fist, and it breaks, disturbing a dagger, which she catches as it falls. she pulls her hand out and turns the blade over in her hand, smiling.
buffy: i'm gettin' it.
scene direction: faith smiles, too, seeing that buffy is finally coming around to her way of thinking. she turns around and sees a compound hunting bow under the glass of another display case, and kicks it in. buffy just gives her a brief glance. faith pulls the bow out and looks it over, then smiles at her partner in slayage. but before they can get any further, they are surprised by a gunshot. they spin around to see they've been caught by two police officers. they both have their service revolvers aimed at them.
officer: drop the weapons and get down on the ground! now!
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: inside meyer's sport and tackle. the police officer takes a step closer, eyeing the two girls.
officer: i said drop the weapons, or i fire.
scene direction: buffy slowly reaches her hand out and sets the dagger on a counter. the officer is satisfied, and turns his attention to faith. she gives in, but isn't as gentle with the hunting bow as buffy was with the knife, simply extending her arm and tossing it aside. the two officers visibly relax a bit, but keep their guns up and ready.
officer: now spread 'em.
scene direction: faith haughtily
faith: you wish.
scene direction: buffy's eyes go wide with concern for what faith might do. the officers tense up again.
officer: hands in the air where i can see 'em. slow!
scene direction: faith smiles at him, but does as she's told and raises her arms over her head. buffy raises hers as well, but just level to her shoulders.
officer: good.
scene direction: officer to his partner
officer: now cuff 'em.
scene direction: his partner holsters his gun and reaches into his belt for his cuffs.
scene direction: faith checks out the one still holding the gun.
scene direction: faith to buffy, smiling sexily
faith: i like him. he's butch.
scene direction: cut inside the police car. buffy and faith are in the back seat with their hands cuffed behind their backs. a heavy steel mesh separates them from the officers in the front seat.
officer: that's some artillery you two were puttin' together. you with one of them girl gangs?
scene direction: faith sarcastically
faith: yeah. we're the slayers.
scene direction: the officer laughs. faith doesn't think it's funny.
scene direction: faith quietly to buffy
faith: you wanna get outta here?
scene direction: she slouches down in the seat. buffy realizes what she intends, and isn't at all sure it's a good idea.
scene direction: faith impatiently
faith: we can't save the world in jail.
scene direction: buffy sees the truth in that, and slowly slouches down also. faith raises her legs, and buffy follows her lead.
scene direction: faith quietly
faith: one, two...
scene direction: they both push-kick hard into the steel mesh, making it buckle and tear at the edges and hit the officers in the backs of their heads. the driver loses control of the car, and it swerves screechingly to the left and smashes into a parked car. the damage isn't terribly serious, but the police car's radiator has burst, and the steam rises thickly, obscuring the view. both officers are unconscious. buffy climbs out of the front passenger-side door. a moment later faith comes out as well with one of the officer's keys. they turn back-to-back and fumble with the keys, trying to unlock the cuffs.
scene direction: buffy looking at the officers
buffy: we should call an ambulance.
faith: five people already have, the racket we made, and they're fine.
scene direction: she's right. one of them is already regaining consciousness. she gets the cuffs unlocked.
faith: come on. let's get outta here.
scene direction: she starts to run, but looks back when buffy doesn't immediately follow.
faith: come on!
scene direction: buffy sees the other officer start to come to as well. she looks around quickly a last time and runs after faith.
scene change: cut to buffy's house the next morning. cut to the kitchen. buffy enters through the back door, bringing the paper in with her. she is engrossed in an article, perhaps about the break-in and police car accident. joyce walks in from the dining room.
joyce: admit it.
scene direction: buffy looks up surprised. her mother leans on the island.
joyce: some days don't you wanna just wake up and say to hell with the diet? wanna make waffles? big saturday brunch?
buffy: no, thanks. i'm not really that hungry.
scene direction: buffy turns the page
scene direction: joyce sighs and goes to the dish cabinet.
joyce: so, what did you and faith do last night?
buffy: nothing. uh...
scene direction: buffy smiles thinly
buffy: nothing really important.
scene direction: joyce gets a coffee mug
joyce: don't worry.
scene direction: joyce grabs the coffee pot
joyce: i'm not gonna meddle in your slaying.
scene direction: joyce pours a cup
joyce: just as long as you're careful.
scene direction: buffy engrossed in reading
buffy: i am.
scene direction: joyce sees how she's concentrating and steps over to the island.
joyce: you sure about those waffles?
scene direction: buffy looks up and closes the paper.
buffy: yeah. but if you want them, i can help you make them.
joyce: no.
scene direction: joyce sighs
joyce: they only don't have calories if i make them for you.
scene direction: joyce buffy doesn't get it
joyce: mom logic. you, uh, done with the paper?
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: buffy leaves the kitchen
scene direction: joyce opens the paper
joyce: let's see what's happening in sunnydale.
scene change: cut to the mayor's office. he poses with a troop of young boy scouts.
scene direction: they all have huge smiles on their faces. the photographer snaps the picture.
mayor wilkins: there we go.
scene direction: the scouts all file out of the office.
mayor wilkins: thanks a lot, fellas. thanks a heap.
scene direction: he goes to the window, where the blinds are open, letting in plenty of light.
mayor wilkins: hey, have fun on that camping trip, now. don't forget to roast a wiener for me.
scene direction: allan shoos the last of the scouts out and closes the door securely.
scene direction: the mayor chuckles as he closes the blinds, then walks to the other window and closes them there, too.
mayor wilkins: here we go. alright, you can come out now.
scene direction: the door to his private bathroom opens, and mr. trick comes back into the office.
scene direction: mayor wilkins shakes his finger at the office door, smiling
mayor wilkins: backbone of america, those little guys. seeing the hope and courage on their bright little faces, i swear i could just, i... i could just eat 'em up.
scene direction: mayor wilkins chuckles, heads for his liquor cabinet
mayor wilkins: so, any news about the eliminati?
scene direction: he opens the cabinet, and out jumps vincent. he grabs him by the neck, pushes him back and down over his desk and holds up his sword to attack.
vincent: in the name of lord balthazar, die!
scene direction: before he can do anything else, mr. trick punches him in the forehead.
scene direction: vincent falls backward onto the floor, unconscious. the mayor coughs as he sits up on the edge of the desk and straightens his tie.
mayor wilkins: thank you, mr. trick. that was very thoughtful of you.
trick: why do they always gotta be using swords?
scene direction: trick picks it up, tosses it to allan
trick: it's called an uzi, ya chump! could have saved your ass right about now.
scene direction: allan would rather not have the sword, and looks down at vincent aghast.
scene direction: mayor wilkins to allan, arms crossed
mayor wilkins: you know, it's curious how he could've gotten all the way into my liquor cabinet.
scene direction: mayor wilkins allan looks up at him
mayor wilkins: allan, don't we have, don't we have security working in this building?
scene direction: allan scared and nervous
allan: sir, i... i had no idea. i-i...
mayor wilkins: there's no need to swoon, allan. but try to keep things secure.
scene direction: mayor wilkins looks down at vincent
mayor wilkins: lock him up.
scene direction: mayor wilkins goes to his chair
trick: he wakes up, he's just gonna try and kill you again.
scene direction: mayor wilkins sits
scene direction: mayor wilkins smugly
mayor wilkins: yes. yes, i expect he will.
scene change: cut to the packing warehouse. one of the eliminati lifts the ladle and pours the water over balthazar. the camera shifts focus onto the new leader of the eliminati.
balthazar: vincent made a noble effort. man to man, as befits a true warrior.
scene direction: balthazar wheezes
balthazar: he had courage... he had honor... and i have *jack* to show for it!
scene direction: balthazar calms a bit
balthazar: it's been a hundred years since my enemy crippled me. now ultimate power is within his grasp. and i shall *not*
scene direction: let it be! forget about honor! forget about everything! but getting my amulet! bring the watchers to me! find the slayers and kill them! kill everything that gets in your way! gooooo! gooooo!
scene change: cut to buffy's house.
buffy: mmm.
willow: you like it?
scene change: cut to buffy's room. she and willow are sitting on her bed. buffy is sniffing a small black felt pouch that willow gave to her.
buffy: it smells good. what is it?
scene direction: willow smiling proudly
willow: just a little something we witches like to call a protection spell.
buffy: good deal, protection.
scene direction: buffy sniffs
buffy: i'm surprised, though, 'cause usually spell stuff's more...
willow: stinky. yeah. that's why i added lavender. give me time, and i may be the first wicca to do all my conjuring in pine fresh scent. so what's the plan?
scene direction: buffy gives her an inquiring look.
willow: for tonight's slayage. we're going, aren't we?
scene direction: buffy wanting to avoid the subject
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: willow knowing there's more
willow: great!
scene direction: buffy realizes she can't hide it
buffy: but... there's a 'but'. and that's 'but you shouldn't come... tonight.' is that cool?
scene direction: willow slightly hurt
willow: well, sure. makes sense. you know... you'll be facing big, hairy danger.
scene direction: buffy tries to justify it
buffy: uh, b-biggest and very hairy.
scene direction: willow fishes for more information
willow: you'll be risking your life.
buffy: right. and why risk yours?
scene direction: willow glances down, then back up
willow: because i'm your friend?
buffy: i know, will, and that's exactly why i don't want you going.
scene direction: it's, it's too dangerous.
scene direction: willow protests
willow: but i-i've done this sort of thing before! like, a million times, and i can totally handle myself. besides,
scene direction: willow holds up her own felt pouch
willow: minty fresh protection. so?
scene direction: there's a knock at the door. faith opens it and comes in.
faith: ready? time to motor. hey, willow.
scene direction: willow unenthused
willow: hi.
scene direction: willow faces buffy
willow: uh...
scene direction: faith paces back toward the door.
scene direction: buffy stands up, apologetic
buffy: i really should... but we'll hang out later, right?
scene direction: willow trying to hide how hurt she is
willow: yeah. you, you go ahead. i'll just get my stuff.
scene direction: buffy wants to say something, but changes her mind and just looks at her friend, giving her felt pouch a squeeze, and follows faith out of the room. willow watches her go, then looks down at her own pouch.
willow: stupid...
scene direction: she throws the pouch down on the bed.
scene change: cut to an alley near the packing warehouse. buffy and faith come walking around a corner. faith has the compound hunting bow with her, and gets an arrow ready.
faith: you're quiet tonight.
buffy: i just wanna get this done.
faith: yeah.
scene direction: faith smiling
faith: i'm dying to test out the longbow. i think it might be my new thing.
buffy: i can't believe you went back for that stuff.
faith: hey, how do you feel about getting some ribs? you know, after we're done?
scene direction: they are surprised by an eliminatus doing a front tuck from above and landing in their way.
scene change: cut to giles' office. wesley checks out some of the pictures on the wall while giles sits at his desk fidgeting with his glasses.
wesley: i didn't say you had emotional problems.
scene direction: wesley turns to giles
wesley: i said you had *an* emotional problem.
scene direction: wesley condescendingly
wesley: it's quite different.
scene direction: giles enunciating clearly
giles: my 'attachment' to the slayer is not a problem. in point of fact, it's been a very...
scene direction: wesley interrupts
wesley: the way you've handled this assignment is something of an embarrassment to the council.
scene direction: giles miffed
giles: if you want to criticize my methods, fine. but you can keep your snide remarks to yourself. and while you're at it, don't criticize my methods.
scene direction: giles puts on his glasses
wesley: the fact is, you're no longer qualified to act as watcher.
scene direction: wesley paces behind giles, condescendingly
wesley: it's not your fault. you've done well. it's simply time for somebody else to take the field.
scene direction: wesley turns around
scene direction: giles looks at him, then past him through the window to the main area.
giles: now's a good time to start.
scene direction: wesley turns to look as well, and there they see four eliminati come to take them to balthazar.
scene change: cut to the alley. the vampire roars and comes at buffy. she sidesteps him, grabs him and shoves him into the back of a truck. he comes at her again and does a front snap kick at buffy, which she blocks. she returns with a roundhouse kick to his gut, knocking him to the pavement. buffy jumps on him, and they begin to struggle. another vampire joins in as faith struggles with her bow, but they are in too close of quarters for her to use it against him.
scene direction: faith to herself
faith: screw it!
scene direction: she drops the bow, but holds on to the arrow. she ducks a roundhouse kick from the demon, and the momentum of the kick without a hit makes him keep spinning before he lands. faith does a side-kick to his side, and he staggers into the side of a truck. faith comes at him with her arrow and plunges it home as he turns around to attack again. he bursts into ashes. buffy gets up holding her stake, having just dusted hers as well.
faith: i think we've got more comin'!
scene direction: they start quickly in the direction of the packing warehouse.
buffy: we're never gonna make it to the warehouse.
faith: if they keep coming one at a time, we got a shot.
scene direction: suddenly another eliminatus lands in front of them and thrusts at faith with his short sword. she reacts instantly, catching his arm and shoving him into a crate, then pulling him off and swinging him backward onto a pile of several chords of wood. buffy steps right in and stakes him. he crumbles to ash. the two slayers continue along the alley at a brisk pace.
scene direction: at the end of the building an arm reaches out and grabs buffy by the shoulder. instantly she grabs the man and throws him against a dumpster.
scene direction: faith jumps right in to stake him. he slumps down to the ground, hurt by the impact against the heavy steel container. it's allan, but faith is too caught up in things and doesn't realize he's human.
buffy: faith, no!
scene direction: faith swings down with her stake and plunges it into allan's heart, then pulls it out. allan grabs his chest in pain and surprise. blood pours out freely, pumped out by his now punctured, beating heart. faith backs away as buffy quickly gets down beside him to try to help him. allan pulls his hands away and looks down at them covered in his own blood, shaking hard as he goes into shock. buffy looks at the wound and sees its severity.
buffy: don't move!
scene direction: faith shocked
faith: i didn't... i didn't know. i didn't know.
scene direction: buffy to faith behind her
buffy: we need to call 911, now!
scene direction: faith is paralyzed with fear. allan shakes even harder as the blood loss increases. he looks up at buffy.
scene direction: buffy to allan
buffy: don't move, i-it's okay...
scene direction: she tries to apply pressure to the wound, but the blood just keeps coming.
scene direction: buffy to faith
buffy: i-i need, i need something to stop the...
scene direction: allan begins to convulse. his eyes go wide with the fear of death as blood begins to trickle from the corner of his mouth. he tries to say something, but can't get the words out. buffy can only watch in despair, unable to help. allan looks down at his chest one last time, then reaches up to buffy, but his arm never makes it. it falls to his side, and his body relaxes against the dumpster, finally dead. his eyes remain wide open, staring up into nothing. buffy stares back at him in open- mouthed horror.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the alley. allan lies dead against the dumpster. faith begins to panic.
faith: we gotta go!
scene direction: she grabs buffy and pulls her up.
faith: come on, we gotta go!
scene direction: they run from the scene. the camera cuts to allan's face, still blankly staring into space, and pans down to his blood-soaked shirt and jacket.
scene change: cut to the slayers running down an alley. buffy stops to look back.
scene direction: faith grabs her arm to get her to follow.
faith: come on.
scene direction: she climbs up on some crates and jumps over a wall. buffy decides to continue down the alley to a fence, and climbs over it instead.
scene direction: cut into another alley. buffy waits for a car to pass on the street and walks into the alley. there she is surprised by angel coming out of the shadows.
buffy: angel!
angel: buffy, i've been looking for you.
scene direction: he notices that she's stressed out, then sees the blood on her hands. he takes one and holds it up to see. buffy jerks it back.
angel: your hand.
buffy: it's okay.
angel: i've just been to the warehouse. i was waiting for you. they got giles.
scene direction: buffy's face instantly washes over with worry.
scene change: cut to allan's body. faith slowly steps up to it. in the distance a police siren can be heard getting closer, then further away. faith kneels down beside allan and reaches out for the wound. she touches it and immediately yanks her hand back. she looks at him, her expression full of guilt and horror at making the worst mistake she possibly could - killing a human.
scene change: cut to the packing warehouse. wesley and giles are being held before balthazar, but he's ignoring them for the moment as he insistently instructs the vampire with the ladle.
balthazar: the front! the front! moisten the front!
scene direction: he groans as a ladle full of water is poured across his chest. wesley and giles watch in disgust.
scene direction: wesley very nervous
wesley: oh, god!
scene direction: wesley looks around desperately
wesley: oh, god!
scene direction: giles calmly
giles: it doesn't seem too promising, does it?
scene direction: wesley trying not to panic
wesley: stay calm, mr. giles. we have to stay calm.
scene direction: giles brimming over with sarcasm
giles: well, thank god you're here. i was planning to panic.
scene direction: wesley looks at balthazar
wesley: what *is* that thing?
giles: that would be your demon. you know, the dead one?
wesley: there's no need to get snippy.
scene direction: balthazar finally turns his attention to the watchers.
balthazar: bring them closer.
scene direction: two of the eliminati grab them and shove them closer.
balthazar: you know what i want.
giles: if it's for me to scrub those hard-to-reach areas, i'd like to request you kill me now.
scene direction: he is hit hard in the back for his insolence.
giles: ow.
scene direction: wesley beginning to panic
wesley: are you out of your mind? this is hardly the time for games!
giles: why not? they're going to torture us to death anyway.
scene direction: balthazar snickers happily
balthazar: you're not wrong about that.
scene direction: balthazar wheezes
wesley: now, hold on. we-we-we can deal with this rationally. we have something you want. you have something we want.
balthazar: hmm... a trade. intriguing.
scene direction: balthazar considers
balthazar: no. wait. boring.
scene direction: pull off his kneecaps!
scene direction: two of the vampires grab him.
scene direction: wesley horrified
wesley: nooo! no, no, no!
scene direction: wesley they let go, he caves
wesley: the slayer g-gave it to someone. a tall man, a friend... a friend of hers. i can tell you everything.
scene direction: giles under his breath
giles: quiet, you twerp! they'll kill us both.
scene direction: wesley panicked
wesley: but i'd like to have my kneecaps.
balthazar: you will tell us everything!
wesley: yes! sir.
balthazar: what is this friend's name?
scene direction: wesley at a loss
wesley: i didn't actually catch it.
scene direction: giles tries to fake him out
giles: look, um, tell you what, let captain courageous here go, and i'll tell you what you need to know. how's that deal?
balthazar: there is one deal! you will die quickly, or you will die slowly! the man who has my amulet! what is his naaame?!
angel: his name is angel.
scene direction: he walks into their midst sporting his game face, and immediately grabs the two eliminati holding giles and wesley, pulling them away and slamming one of them into a wall, the other into some metal shelves.
scene direction: another one moves to take their place holding the watchers, but giles headbutts him, and he falls.
scene direction: buffy jumps in now, too, coming from the other direction, backhand punches one vampire and punches another in the face. the first one raises his sword and tries to attack, but she blocks him and grabs his arm. she brings it down and knees him in the gut, making him drop his sword. giles sees buffy catch it, and turns his tied hands toward her.
scene direction: she swings the sword in a high arc and brings it down on the ropes binding his wrists, slicing them cleanly. the pieces fall to the floor as giles grabs wesley and pushes him out of harm's way.
scene direction: buffy swings the sword back at the eliminatus, but he catches her hand and swings the sword down against the edge of balthazar's pool, forcing her to drop it. he does a backhand swing at buffy's face, making her trip forward, but she returns with a back kick at him, and then shoulder rolls onto a large crate to avoid being sliced by another one's sword.
scene direction: balthazar flailing his arms in a tantrum
balthazar: un...
scene direction: balthazar sputters
scene direction: unacceptable!
scene direction: angel ducks a swing from an eliminatus and then does a right hook to his face and punches him hard in the gut. he turns around and backhand punches the one behind him, blocks a return swing and punches him again.
scene direction: balthazar very displeased
balthazar: unacceptable!
scene direction: out of the way of the fight, giles unties wesley's hands. behind him a vampire roars, and he looks back in time to see and duck his sword. it hits on a shelf, and giles grabs the blade and back elbows the vamp in the face, taking the sword from him. he swings it around and jams the hilt of the sword into his face as well, then spins around in time to take on another one.
scene direction: the eliminatus swings his sword at giles, who parries it with his own.
scene direction: the vampire swings again, and again giles blocks it. the demon spins around and swings down from above, but again giles has his sword up in time to block. he swings his arms around and down, forcing the eliminatus' sword to the floor and making him bend down with it, and then knees him in the face. the vampire jerks backward and falls to the floor, dropping his sword.
scene direction: in the meantime, the one whose sword was taken away by giles grabs wesley from behind, pinning his arms behind his back.
wesley: giles!
scene direction: giles raises his sword and starts to swing it.
giles: down!
scene direction: wesley bends over fast, and the blade catches the vampire on the neck and slices through. the beheaded eliminatus bursts into ashes. wesley stands back up, shocked at what just happened.
scene direction: buffy gets to her feet on a raised area of the floor. an eliminatus comes at her with a sword, but she grabs his arm and pulls him past her over a crate and into a barrel. another one swings at her, and she middle blocks him, punches him in the gut, ducks another swing and then backhand punches him in the face. he falls to the floor. buffy picks him up and sends him spinning into a huge pile of rope. as he tries to come at her again, she does a full spinning wheel kick to his face. he quickly regains his balance and tries to punch her, but she redirects his fist and holds onto it while she elbows him in the face. she swings him around and throws him into a bunch of stacked oil barrels.
scene direction: angel delivers a side kick to his attacker. another one tries to front kick him, but he grabs his leg and throws him into a back layout.
scene direction: another one comes for buffy. she just grabs him by the arms and throws him from the raised floor to below. she blocks a roundhouse kick from another and nearly gets punched in the face. she punches him in the gut, and he doubles over, backing away a bit. this gives her room to fly into a double spinning out-to-in jumping crescent kick. the vampire flies upward spinning fast and lands hard on a crate, then rolls off onto the floor below.
scene direction: an eliminatus gets angel in the face with a jumping out-to-in crescent kick, but he's not fazed. angel blocks a high punch from him, punches him in the gut, grabs onto him and throws him through the air and into a wall.
scene direction: balthazar has had enough and holds out his arms. the air between him and angel becomes disturbed, and angel finds himself being sucked back toward him. he lands on his back on the edge of the pool. balthazar seizes his head in both hands. angel struggles to get away, but the grip is extremely tight. buffy sees what's happening and looks for a way to help. she spies an electrical cable hanging down from a lamp directly above balthazar. she grabs it and yanks hard, and the lamp falls from the roof with sparks flying right into the pool. balthazar immediately lets go of angel and writhes in agony as he is electrocuted. giles and wesley stare in amazement. soon balthazar seems dead and the circuit breakers shut off the power. buffy rushes over to help angel. he's shaken but fine. she looks at balthazar and is startled when his eyes whip open and he takes a sudden breath.
scene direction: balthazar weak and wheezing
balthazar: slayer! you think you've won.
scene direction: balthazar chuckles and wheezes
balthazar: when he rises... you'll wish i'd killed you all.
scene direction: he lets out his last breath and dies. buffy looks at angel, wondering what he meant.
scene change: cut to a room at city hall. mayor wilkins is kneeling in an inverted pentagram with his hands out to his sides. five candles are burning at each point. he recites a spell.
mayor wilkins: potestatem matris nostrae in tenebris invoco. maledictum filium tuum abomni periculo custodias nunc et in saecula!
translation: our mother of darkness, i summon thee. curse now your dangerous accursed son and protect him into the new age!
scene direction: the building begins to shake. the mayor remains still with his eyes closed and moves with the quake. mr. trick looks around nervously, as does vincent who is locked in a cage. soon it's over, and the mayor opens his eyes and checks his watch.
mayor wilkins: i don't understand why allan would miss this. he's usually so punctual.
scene direction: mayor wilkins stands up
scene direction: trick wide-eyed
trick: did it work?
mayor wilkins: let's find out. open the gate.
trick: you sure?
mayor wilkins: oh! hold on.
scene direction: he trots over to trick, takes vincent's sword from him, sets it tip-down on the floor and lets it fall through the cage bars into vincent's hands. the mayor takes several steps back.
mayor wilkins: okay. now we're ready.
scene direction: trick steps around to the front of the cage, unlocks the padlock and removes the chains. the mayor watches and waits calmly. trick pulls open the door, and vincent rushes out, heading straight for the mayor. he raises his sword high and brings it down hard on the mayor's head, slicing it in two. amazingly, he does not bleed. the flesh inside just shimmers as vincent pulls back his sword. the two halves of the mayor's head pull toward each other and seal themselves together. he stands before vincent as though he was completely untouched. vincent can't believe his eyes and backs away. mr. trick waits behind him and stakes him through the back. he explodes into ashes.
mayor wilkins: well!
scene direction: he reaches into his jacket, pulls out his daily planner and opens it to today's list. some of the things included are - greet scouts, lumber union reschedule, call temp agency, become invincible, meeting with pta, haircut he puts a check mark next to "become invincible" and puts the planner away. trick comes up to him.
mayor wilkins: this officially commences the hundred days. nothing can harm me until the ascension.
scene direction: mayor wilkins smiles wide and laughs
mayor wilkins: gosh, i'm feeling chipper!
scene direction: mayor wilkins keeps laughing
mayor wilkins: who's for a root beer?!
scene direction: he turns around and leaves the room. trick can't help but smile and follow him.
scene change: cut to faith's hotel. cut to her bathroom. she is scrubbing at her shirt in the sink when she hears a knock on the door and looks up.
buffy: faith, it's me.
scene direction: faith leaves the shirt in the sink and goes to answer it. buffy breaks a long moment of silence.
buffy: hey.
faith: hey.
scene direction: she walks back to the bathroom and continues scrubbing the shirt. buffy comes in, closes the door and follows faith to the bathroom.
buffy: so, i, uh...
scene direction: buffy sees faith scrubbing
buffy: how are ya doin'?
scene direction: faith still scrubbing
faith: i'm alright. you know me.
buffy: faith, we need to talk about what we're gonna do.
scene direction: faith looks at buffy
faith: there's nothing to talk about. i was doing my job.
buffy: being a slayer is not the same as being a killer.
scene direction: faith has nothing to say. she's finished scrubbing.
buffy: faith, please don't shut me out here. look, sooner or later, we're both gonna have to deal.
scene direction: faith looks the shirt over
faith: wrong.
buffy: we can help each other.
faith: i don't need it.
scene direction: she pulls the plug from the sink, walks into the room and pulls open a drawer on which to hang the shirt to dry.
buffy: yeah? who's wrong now? faith, you can shut off all the emotions that you want. but eventually, they're gonna find a body.
scene direction: faith faces buffy
faith: okay, this is the last time we're gonna have this conversation, and we're not even having it now, you understand me? there *is* no body. i took it, weighted it, and dumped it. the body doesn't exist.
scene direction: faith turns away
scene direction: buffy shocked
buffy: getting rid of the evidence doesn't make the problem go away.
scene direction: faith faces buffy
faith: it does for me.
scene direction: buffy very concerned
buffy: faith, you don't get it. you *killed* a man.
faith: no, *you* don't get it.
scene direction: faith smiles daringly
faith: i don't care!
scene direction: she turns away again to tend to her things. buffy is speechless with disbelief 