scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: a sunnydale park at night. buffy slowly strolls along the perimeter and into an area surrounded by bushes. she hears a rustling sound coming from the bush directly in front of her, and stops instantly, her gaze fixed on the shaking branches. she pulls out her stake and gets ready to fight, when suddenly she hears a voice to her left.
joyce: is it a vampire?
scene direction: buffy snaps her head to the left and sees her mother walk toward her carrying a bag in one hand and a large thermos in the other.
buffy: mom, what are you doing here?
scene direction: joyce holds up the bag and thermos
joyce: i brought you a snack. i thought it was about time for me to come out and watch. y-you know, the slaying.
buffy: you know, the slaying is kind of an alone thing.
joyce: but it's such a big part of your life, and i'd like to understand it. it's, um, you know, something we could share.
buffy: a-actually, it's pretty dull, you know, it's
scene direction: buffy distracted
buffy: bam boom stick... poof.
scene direction: her attention is back on the rustling bush, and she nudges her mother to the side a bit. suddenly a vampire jumps out at her and runs straight for her. she ducks as the vampire lunges at her with his arms outstretched. she gets back up and delivers a right hook to his face followed by a backhand punch on the backswing and a left to the face, making him take a step back. her mother cheers her on.
joyce: good, honey! kill him!
scene direction: buffy does an out-to-in crescent kick, which he easily ducks. she tries to punch him in the face again, but he grabs onto her shoulders and rolls onto his back, sending her rolling over him and onto her back. she lets out a pained grunt and looks around to get her bearings.
scene direction: joyce points
joyce: buffy, he-he's over here!
scene direction: the vampire faces her and roars.
joyce: oh, my god! it's mr. sanderson from the bank!
scene direction: he comes at buffy with a front snap kick, which she low blocks. he tries to punch her, but she ducks it. buffy does a half spinning in-to-out crescent kick followed swiftly by a leg sweep, knocking the vampire's legs out from under him. she stands back up and gets ready to punch him, but he's had enough. he scrambles to his feet and hightails it out of there.
scene direction: joyce points with the thermos
joyce: and he's getting away!
scene direction: buffy gives her a stern look.
buffy: stay!
scene direction: she runs off after the vampire. joyce lets out a worried sigh and decides to walk the short distance over to the playground. there she sets down her bag and the thermos on a bench near the swings. she shivers a bit from the cold night air. she steps over to the concrete border between the grass and the sand of the playground and notices a toy pickup truck that was left behind in a small puddle. she picks it up and smiles as she looks it over. then something catches her eye at the other side of the playground.
scene change: cut to buffy on the ground with the vampire bending over her. she grabs him and pulls him over and down onto the ground next to her. she scrambles to her knees and jams her stake home. the vampire explodes in a cloud of ashes.
scene change: cut to joyce as she makes her way over to the carousel. when she's close enough to get a good look, she stops in horror, shocked at what she sees.
joyce: oh, god.
scene direction: joyce takes a breath
joyce: oh...
scene change: cut to a long shot of her with the carousel in the foreground. the body of a young boy lies dead on it, and next to it on the sand lies the body of a young girl. joyce can't believe her eyes. each of the children has one arm outstretched, and drawn in black on the palms of their hands is a triangle. it has a wide u-shaped symbol in the middle, with its ends extending out from the triangle and bending in a sharp arc at the tips.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene direction: the playground. several police cars and a coroner's van have arrived, and the detectives are looking over the scene. no one has touched the bodies yet. the police photographer steps up to the carousel and takes aim at the young boy with his camera. a series of black-and-white photos follow. the boy's outstretched arm with the symbol on the palm of his hand. the girl from straight above with her outstretched arm. a close-up shot of the girl's face. a wide-angle shot of both of the children from above. the boy from straight above with his outstretched arm. a close-up of the boy's hand with the symbol clearly visible.
scene direction: sometime later, buffy is finishing an interview with a police officer.
scene direction: she asks him if she and her mother can leave now.
police officer #1: yes, ma'am.
scene direction: buffy walks over to her mother. the police bustle with activity around them.
police officer #2: alright, let's move here. somebody pull that car out.
scene direction: buffy reaches her mother
buffy: they said we can go home now.
scene direction: joyce distraught
joyce: they were little kids. did you see them? they're so tiny.
scene direction: buffy sympathetically
buffy: i saw.
scene direction: joyce shaking her head
joyce: who could do something like this? i just...
scene direction: joyce looks down sadly
buffy: i'm so sorry that you had to see this. but i promise, everything is gonna be okay.
joyce: how?
buffy: because i'm gonna *find* whatever did it.
joyce: i guess. it's just you can't... you can't make it right.
scene direction: buffy hugs her mother closely. joyce begins to sob.
scene direction: buffy comfortingly
buffy: i know. i'm sorry. but i'll take care of everything. i promise. just try and calm down.
scene change: cut to the library the next morning. buffy looks up at giles standing at the top of the stairs to the book stacks.
scene direction: buffy upset
buffy: don't tell me to calm down!
scene direction: giles taken aback
giles: i-i-i only meant...
buffy: they were kids, giles. little kids! you don't know what it was like to see them there. my mom can't even talk.
scene direction: giles takes a few steps down
giles: i'm sorry. i... i just want to help.
scene direction: buffy calms a bit
buffy: i know.
scene direction: giles comes down the rest of the way and goes over to the center table.
scene direction: buffy follows and leans against the back of a chair.
giles: do we know how? uh... it wasn't a vampire?
scene direction: giles sits on the table
buffy: no. there were no marks.
scene direction: giles lifts his mug for a sip of his tea, but stops as buffy continues.
buffy: wait. i-i mean, there, there was a mark, um, a-a symbol.
scene direction: she steps around the chair, grabs a pen from the table and sits to draw it. giles hurriedly sets down his mug and quickly reaches over to stop buffy before she can deface the parchments lying there in front of her.
giles: oh, uh, 12th century, papal encyclical. write on this.
scene direction: he gently picks up the parchments and nudges a spiral notebook over to her. buffy flips the notebook to a blank page and draws as giles sets down the parchments and picks up his mug again.
buffy: i-it was on their hands. the cops are keeping it quiet, but i got a good look at it.
scene direction: she pushes the drawing over for giles to see.
buffy: there. find me the thing that uses this symbol and point me at it.
scene direction: giles thoughtfully
giles: hmm.
buffy: hmm. what? giles, speak.
scene direction: giles torn from his reverie
giles: what? oh, sorry. um, no, it...
scene direction: giles picks up the notebook
giles: i just wonder if we're looking for a thing. the use of a symbol o-o-on a victim like this suggests a, a ritual murder and a cult sacrifice by a group.
buffy: a group of... human beings? someone with a soul did this?
giles: yes, i'm afraid so.
scene direction: he goes over to the bookshelves behind the table and starts his research.
buffy: okay. then while you're looking for the meaning of that symbol thingy, could you also find a loophole in that 'slayers don't kill people' rule?
scene direction: giles looks back at her from his crouched position.
giles: buffy, this is a dreadful crime, i know,
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: and you have every right to be upset, but... i-i wonder if you're not letting yourself get a shade, uh... more personal because of your mother's involvement.
scene direction: buffy stands and faces him
buffy: oh, it's *completely* personal. giles, find me the people that did this. please.
scene change: cut to the cafeteria. oz and xander are at the steam tables selecting their lunch. oz reaches in, grabs a foil-wrapped burrito and sets it on his plate. xander glances over at him.
xander: hey.
oz: hey.
scene direction: they move down the line to the fruit cocktail bowls and each takes one.
scene direction: xander slightly nervous
xander: so, a burrito.
oz: this is a burrito.
xander: damn straight.
scene change: they both take their trays and head for an empty table. cut to them sitting and eating. willow and amy find them.
willow: hi, oz.
oz: hey.
willow: xander. hi.
oz: hey, amy.
scene direction: willow and amy both sit. amy has a huge smile on her face, pleased to show off her new short and darker hairstyle.
amy: hi, guys.
xander: hey, amy. i like your new hair.
scene direction: oz to willow
oz: i haven't see you all day. where you been?
scene direction: xander shaking his head defensively
xander: not with me. no, sir. ask anyone. no.
scene direction: oz looks over at him with his lips stretched tightly. willow gives xander a look and tries to give oz a smile. the tension is very thick.
scene direction: oz finally breaks it with a change of subject.
oz: so, buffy's birthday is next week.
scene direction: xander claps his hands and points at oz
xander: ooh! yeah. good. i've been pondering gift options.
scene direction: willow sees buffy approaching.
willow: shh.
xander: oh, come on, we just got a topic here.
willow: hi, buffy.
xander: buffy!
scene direction: xander stands up
xander: what's up?
scene direction: he offers her his chair. she takes it and sits while he grabs one from a neighboring table.
buffy: you guys didn't hear?
xander: hear what?
buffy: a murder. somebody killed two little kids.
scene direction: willow shocked
willow: oh, no.
buffy: they were, like, seven or eight years old. my mom found the bodies during patrol last night.
amy: oh, my god.
oz: kids?
xander: why was your mom there?
buffy: more bad. she picked last night, of all nights, for a surprise bonding visit.
willow: god, your mom would actually take the time to do that with you?
scene direction: buffy shoots willow a look.
willow: that really wasn't the point of the story, was it?
buffy: no. the point is, she's completely wigging.
scene direction: her mother comes up behind her.
joyce: who's wigging?
scene direction: buffy snaps her head around, sees joyce standing there and stands up.
scene direction: buffy thinking quickly
buffy: um... everyone. you know, 'cause of what happened.
joyce: oh, it's so awful. i-i had bad dreams about it all night.
willow: hi, mrs. summers.
scene direction: joyce absently
joyce: oh, hi, everybody.
xander: hi.
amy: hi, mrs. summers.
joyce: buffy, have you talked to mr. giles yet about who could have done this?
buffy: yeah. he, uh... he thinks it might be something ritual. a cult. uh, he's still looking. in the meantime, we're gonna add to my patrol and, and, y'know, keep an eye out.
joyce: a cult.
scene direction: joyce jumps to a conclusion
joyce: like witches.
scene direction: willow coughs. amy looks away.
willow: sorry. phlegm. too much dairy.
joyce: oh, i-i-i know you kids think that stuff's cool. buffy told me you dabble.
scene direction: willow nervously
willow: right. absolutely. that's me. i'm a dabbler.
joyce: but anybody who could do this isn't cool. anybody who could do this has to be a monster. it's...
scene direction: buffy interrupts
buffy: you know what? uh, would you guys excuse us for a little bit?
joyce: uh, n-nice to see you.
scene direction: buffy leads her out of the cafeteria.
xander: what a burn. i mean, buff's mom was just starting to accept the whole slayer thing, and now she's gonna be double-freaked.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: makes me grateful that my mom's not interested in my extra-curricular activities.
scene direction: amy has to smile at that. then willow frowns.
willow: or my *curricular* activities.
scene change: cut to the hall outside the cafeteria. buffy and joyce come into the hall and slowly start down it.
joyce: are your friends gonna help with the investigation, too?
buffy: mom, i really think... maybe this isn't the best place to talk about this.
joyce: are you embarrassed to be hanging out with your mother? i didn't hug you.
scene direction: they stop by the stairs.
buffy: no. it's just... this hall is about school, and you're about home. mix them, my world dissolves.
joyce: it's just, i keep thinking about who could have done such a thing. i have to help.
buffy: well, giles can always use help in the library.
joyce: i called everybody i know in town. i told them about the dead children. they're all just as upset as i am.
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: you called everybody that you know?
joyce: and they called all their friends. and guess what? we're setting up a vigil, for tonight, for city hall. the mayor is even gonna be there. now we are gonna get some action.
scene direction: joyce smiles
scene direction: buffy less than thrilled
buffy: uh-huh. that's great. uh... but you know what? a lot of times when we're working on stuff like this, we like to keep the number of people that know about it kind of... small.
scene direction: joyce considers
joyce: oh. right. well, i-i'm sure there won't be all that many people.
scene change: cut to city hall. a large crowd has gathered in the main conference room. many of them are holding up signs with pictures of the two children and the words "never again!" buffy and willow walk in and look around at the crowd.
buffy: this is great. maybe we could all go patrolling together later.
scene direction: willow gestures at joyce
willow: at least your mom's making an effort. my mom's probably...
scene direction: willow notices
willow: standing right in front of me right this second.
scene direction: her mother sees them and comes up to them.
willow: mom?
sheila: willow, i-i didn't know you were going to be here.
scene direction: sheila to buffy, absently
sheila: oh, hi, bunny.
buffy: hi.
willow: mom, what are you doing here?
sheila: oh, well, i read about it in the paper, and what with your dad out of town...
scene direction: sheila notices, surprised
sheila: willow, you cut off your hair! huh.
scene direction: that's a new look.
willow: yeah, it's just a sudden whim i had... in august.
scene direction: sheila smiles
sheila: i like it.
scene direction: joyce comes over to join them. sheila reaches out to shake hands.
sheila: hello, joyce.
joyce: sheila, i'm glad you could come.
scene direction: giles also shows up. he keeps his hands in his pockets.
giles: there you are. i almost didn't find you in this crush.
scene direction: giles notices joyce
scene direction: giles nervously
giles: oh, uh, mrs., uh... uh, joyce. quite a turnout you have here.
joyce: oh, well, it's, it's not just me, but thank you. well, it's, uh, it's been a while.
scene direction: giles uneasy
giles: right. not since, um... not since... not for a while.
sheila: there's a rumor going around, mr. giles.
scene direction: giles suddenly worried
giles: r-rumor, about us?
scene direction: joyce shoots him a look of dismay. giles gets the hint.
giles: a-a-about what?
sheila: about witches.
scene direction: sheila willow and buffy exchange a look
sheila: people calling themselves witches are responsible for this brutal crime.
giles: indeed? how strange.
scene direction: willow laughs nervously, trying to play it off
willow: yes! strange!
scene direction: witches.
scene direction: sheila goes into lecture mode
sheila: well, actually, not that strange. i recently co-authored a paper about the rise of mysticism among adolescents, and i was shocked at the statistical...
scene direction: she is interrupted by some electronic feedback when the mayor tests the microphone as he steps up to the lectern.
sheila: oh. oh, a-are we starting?
scene direction: the mayor clears his throat and sniffles. joyce makes her way around behind everyone over to buffy, who is frowning up at the mayor.
mayor wilkins: hello, everybody.
scene direction: joyce to buffy, whispering
joyce: he'll do something about this. you'll see.
scene direction: everyone settles down to listen to what the mayor has to say.
mayor wilkins: um... i wanna thank you all for coming in the aftermath of such a tragic crime. seeing you all here proves what a caring community sunnydale is. now, sure, we've had our share of misfortunes, but we're a good town with good people, and i know that none of us will rest easy until this horrible murder is solved. with that in mind...
scene direction: mayor wilkins picks up one of the signs
mayor wilkins: i make these words my pledge to you.
scene direction: mayor wilkins holds it up for everyone to see
mayor wilkins: 'never again!' now i ask you to give your attention to the woman who brought us all here tonight, joyce summers.
scene direction: he steps away as joyce walks to the front of the room and steps up to the lectern.
joyce: thank you.
scene direction: she considers her words for a moment before beginning.
joyce: mr. mayor, you're dead wrong.
scene direction: joyce people begin to murmur
joyce: this is *not* a good town. how many of us have, have lost someone who, who just disappeared? or, or got skinned? or suffered neck rupture? and how many of us have been too afraid to speak out? i-i was supposed to lead us in a moment of silence, but... silence is this town's disease. for too long we-we've been plagued by unnatural evils. this isn't our town anymore.
scene direction: it belongs to the monsters and, and the witches and the slayers.
scene direction: buffy looks at her mother in open-mouthed shock. she and willow exchange a worried glance. giles can't believe what he's hearing either.
joyce: i say it's time for the grownups to take sunnydale back. i say we start by finding the people who did this and making them pay.
scene direction: the people in the crowd begin to applaud.
man: hear, hear!
scene direction: sheila claps her hands and looks around at the other people. a man nods his head in silent agreement. buffy is too much in shock to do anything but stare at her mother.
scene change: cut to a panning shot of a sunnydale residential area at night. the streets are quiet. cut to willow's house. the light from her room is clearly visible from the street. cut inside. the camera is centered on a skull with a hole at the crest of the cranium. it is resting on a throw rug next to a burning candle. a hand reaches over the hole in the skull and drops in a short string of beads. the camera pans up to michael, a witch draped in a black, hooded cloak. he folds his hands intertwining his fingers and glances up at another cloaked figure as it steps around him. the figure kneels to pick up the skull, and it's amy. she stands back up and carries the skull around the rug to a position opposite michael. the camera follows her, panning low across the rug, where there are other candles, cups of powders and potions, and a small cauldron.
scene change: amy sets down the skull and sits. she takes a cup of powder and hands it to a third figure, who takes it from her and pours the contents into the steaming liquid in the cauldron. the camera pans up to reveal the third figure as willow, also cloaked in black. she stares silently down at the boiling mixture. cut to a shot from above. the camera pulls up from the cauldron, taking in the array of things and the three witches around it, and continues until it's high enough to see the pattern in the center of the throw rug - a large triangle with a u-shaped symbol in the middle, its ends extending out of the triangle and bending in a sharp arc at the tips.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: the hall at sunnydale high. michael has his locker open and checks his black makeup in the mirror stuck to the inside of the locker door. a group of guys comes up to him, and roy, their leader, slams the locker door shut.
michael: watch it.
scene direction: roy smiling smugly
roy: oh, sorry. did i make you smudge your eyeliner?
scene direction: michael rolls his eyes and shakes his head.
roy: you gonna put a spell on me?
scene direction: amy comes to michael's defense.
amy: hey, what is your problem?
scene direction: roy grabs michael by the shirt and slams him up against the lockers.
roy: everyone knows he's into that voodoo witchcraft.
scene direction: roy other students stare
roy: i heard about those kids. people like him...
scene direction: roy slams michael again
roy: gotta learn a lesson.
amy: and what about people like me?
scene direction: roy threateningly
roy: get in my face and you'll find out.
scene direction: buffy steps up behind amy and gives him a smile. he notices her and suddenly thinks better of going any further. he lets michael go and straightens his shirt a bit.
roy: no problem here.
scene direction: roy nods to the other boys
roy: we're walking.
scene direction: buffy follows them for a few steps, then turns back to michael and amy.
buffy: you guys okay?
michael: yeah. we're fine.
scene direction: michael walks off
scene direction: amy smiles
amy: thanks, buffy.
scene direction: amy walks off
scene direction: buffy looks back down the hall to make sure the gang is still headed away. giles comes around the corner, and buffy starts toward him, but is headed off by cordelia.
cordelia: you'll be one busy little slayer, baby-sitting them.
buffy: i doubt they'll have any more trouble.
cordelia: i doubt your doubt. everyone knows that witches killed those kids, and amy is a witch. and michael is whatever the boy of witch is, plus being the poster child for yuck.
buffy: corde...
scene direction: cordelia interrupts
cordelia: if you're gonna hang with them, expect badness. 'cause that's what you get when you hang with freaks and losers. believe me, i know.
scene direction: she starts down the hall, but stops and turns back to buffy.
scene direction: cordelia smiling
cordelia: that was a pointed comment about me hanging with you guys.
scene direction: cordelia turns and leaves
buffy: yeah, i got that one.
scene direction: buffy loudly after her
buffy: besides, witches didn't do it.
scene direction: buffy turns to giles
scene direction: giles whispers
giles: actually, i think they may have. my research keeps bringing me back to european wiccan covens.
buffy: you found the meaning of the symbol?
scene direction: giles exhales
giles: i'm pretty sure, yes. there's a, a piece of information i need that's in a book that willow borrowed. can you find it?
scene direction: he goes down the hall toward the library. buffy looks around into the student lounge to see if willow happens to be there. she sees xander sitting on one of the couches and heads over to him.
xander: buffy, hi.
buffy: hey. is willow around?
scene direction: xander exasperated
xander: how can i convince you people that it's over? you assume because i'm here, she's here, that i somehow mysteriously know where she is.
scene direction: buffy points
buffy: those her books?
xander: yeah. she's in the bathroom.
scene direction: xander points
scene direction: buffy takes a step toward willow's books, but stops as xander continues.
xander: but the fact that i know that doesn't change that i have a genuine complaint here. look. i'm getting sick of the judgment, the innuendos. is a man not innocent until proven guilty?
buffy: you *are* guilty. you got illicit smoochies, gonna have to pay the price.
scene direction: she tries again to go to willow's books, but xander isn't finished yet.
xander: but i'm talking about the future guilt. look, everyone expects me to mess up again. like oz. i see how he is around me. you know, that steely gaze... that pointed silence.
buffy: 'cause he's usually such a chatterbox.
scene direction: this time she just goes to willow's books and lets xander talk.
xander: no, but it's different now. it's more a verbal nonverbal. he speaks volumes with his eyes.
scene direction: buffy finds the book in question and picks it up. underneath it is a spiral notebook. on the exposed page is the triangle symbol. buffy picks it up and stares. willow comes out of the bathroom and over to her.
willow: hey, buff. what cha looking for? you wanna borrow something?
scene direction: buffy holds up the notebook
buffy: what is this?
scene direction: willow takes and closes it
willow: a doodle. i do doodle. you, too. you do doodle, too.
buffy: this is a witch symbol.
willow: okay, yeah, it is.
buffy: willow...
scene direction: willow defensively
willow: what?
buffy: that symbol was on the murdered children.
scene direction: before they can get any further into it, they are distracted by the sounds of many lockers suddenly being slammed shut. they can hear a man talking.
police officer #3: please step back. stay away from the lockers. this is police business.
scene change: buffy, willow and xander exchange alarmed looks. they all head into the hall to see what's going on. cut to the hall. a police officer is going from locker to locker opening them with a master key. at another locker another officer takes some books from a student.
police officer #4: hand them over, please. the books.
scene direction: yet another officer takes a string of garlic cloves from a locker and sets it on a cart with a bunch of other things they've confiscated.
scene direction: principal snyder stands in the hall, gloating as the police continue their search. several officers keep the students at bay. a detective leads a boy away. amy has joined the group as they watch all the activity.
xander: aw, man, it's nazi germany, and i've got playboys in my locker!
scene direction: snyder smugly
snyder: this is a glorious day for principals everywhere. no pathetic whining about students' rights. just a long row of lockers and a man with a key.
scene direction: an officer finds a voodoo doll in a locker.
scene direction: oz to willow, quietly
oz: they just took three kids away.
buffy: what are they looking for?
amy: witch stuff.
scene direction: willow very worried
willow: what?
amy: they got my spells. i'm supposed to report to snyder's office.
willow: oh, my god.
scene direction: an officer looks through a girl's purse. another officer steps up to amy.
police officer #3: okay, amy. you'll have to come with me.
scene direction: police officer #4 to some students
police officer #4: stay away from the locker.
scene direction: willow to buffy, sick with worry
willow: i have stuff in my locker. henbane, hellebore, mandrake root.
scene direction: xander interrupts
xander: excuse me. playboys. can we turn the sympathy
scene direction: xander jerks his head
xander: this way?
scene direction: one of the officers has reached cordelia's locker and pulls out a can of hairspray.
cordelia: hey! get your grubby custodial hands off that.
scene direction: cordelia tries to approach
scene direction: police officer #4 pushes her back
police officer #4: miss, you have to stay back. miss, stay back.
cordelia: that hair spray costs $45, and it's imported!
scene direction: willow begins to freak out
willow: oh, god, my locker's next. buffy, i didn't do anything wrong.
scene direction: an officer pulls some plastic bags from willow's locker.
willow: the, the symbol is harmless. i used it to make a protection spell for you, for your birthday. with michael and amy. only, now it's broken, because you know about it, so happy birthday, and please, you have to believe me!
scene direction: snyder walks over to the group with the bags in hand.
snyder: ms. rosenberg. my office.
scene direction: he holds up the bags of henbane and mandrake root. willow stares back at him, eyes wide with worry and fear. buffy discreetly walks in front of her and takes giles' book from her arms. willow starts down the halls in front of snyder. oz accompanies her with his hand on her back in a gesture of comfort.
scene change: cut to the library. a police officer kicks open the cage door and strides out into the room with a stack of books in his hands. he carries them over to the table and drops them unceremoniously into a box.
scene direction: another officer comes down from the stacks with another armful of books.
scene direction: buffy comes into the library as still another officer walks out carrying one of the boxes. she heads straight for giles, who watches helplessly.
buffy: giles.
giles: they're confiscating my books.
buffy: giles, we need those books.
giles: believe me, i tried to tell that to the nice man with the big gun.
scene direction: they move to the side to talk. giles watches the activity around him, seething with anger.
buffy: no. there's something about the symbol that we're missing.
scene direction: willow said she used it in a protection spell. it's harmless. not a big bad. so then why would it turn up in a ritual sacrifice?
giles: i don't know. ordinarily, i would say let's widen our research.
buffy: using what? a-a dictionary and 'my friend flicka'?
scene direction: she sets the book on the counter as giles steps back into the room.
giles: this is intolerable. snyder's interfered before, but i, i won't take this from that twisted little homunculus.
scene direction: snyder walks into the library holding a cup of coffee.
scene direction: snyder smirking
snyder: i love the smell of desperate librarian in the morning.
scene direction: giles approaches him angrily
giles: you get out! and take your marauders with you.
scene direction: snyder unaffected
snyder: oh, my. so fierce.
scene direction: snyder walks past him
snyder: i suppose i should hear you out. just how is, um...
scene direction: snyder takes a book from an officer, reads the title
snyder: 'blood rites and sacrifices' appropriate material for a public school library? chess club branching out?
scene direction: snyder sips his coffee
giles: this is not over.
snyder: oh, i should say it's just beginning. fight it if you want.
scene direction: just remember, lift a finger against me, and you'll have to answer to moo.
scene direction: buffy incredulous
buffy: answer to moo? did that sentence just make some sense that i'm not in on?
snyder: 'mothers opposed to the occult.' a powerful new group.
scene direction: snyder sips his coffee
buffy: and who came up with that lame name?
scene direction: snyder heads out
snyder: that would be the founder. i believe you call her 'mom'.
scene direction: buffy can't believe it.
scene change: cut to willow's house that night. she opens the door and goes in. in the living room she finds her mother looking over a bunch of her things taken from her room. her mother notices her come in.
sheila: oh, sit down, honey.
scene direction: willow goes to the couch
willow: principal snyder talk to you?
scene direction: willow takes off her pack and sits
sheila: yes. he's quite concerned.
scene direction: sheila looks at an old picture
willow: mom, i know what this looks like, and i can totally...
scene direction: sheila interrupts
sheila: oh, you don't have to explain, honey. this isn't exactly a surprise.
scene direction: sheila turns over the picture
scene direction: willow fidgets, confused
willow: why not?
scene direction: sheila shrugs
sheila: oh, well, identification with mythical icons is perfectly typical of your age group. it's a, a classic adolescent response to the pressures of incipient adulthood.
scene direction: sheila set the picture down
willow: oh. is that what it is?
scene direction: sheila picks up a bag of herbs
sheila: of course, i wish you could've identified with something a little less icky,
scene direction: sheila shrugs
sheila: but developmentally speaking...
willow: mom, i'm not an age group. i'm me. willow group.
sheila: oh, honey...
scene direction: she puts down the bag and gets up to go over to her daughter.
sheila: i understand.
scene direction: sheila sits next to her
willow: no, you don't.
scene direction: willow faces her
willow: mom, this may be hard for you to accept, but i can do stuff. nothing bad or dangerous, but i can do spells.
sheila: you think you can, and that's what concerns me. the delusions.
willow: mom, how would you know what i can do? i mean, the last time we had a conversation over three minutes, it was about the patriarchal bias of the mr. rogers show.
sheila: well,
scene direction: sheila makes finger quotes
sheila: with king friday lording it over all the lesser puppets...
willow: mom, you're not paying attention.
sheila: and this is your way of trying to get it. now, i have consulted with some of my colleagues, and they agree that this is a cry for discipline. you're grounded.
scene direction: willow surprised
willow: grounded? this is the first time *ever* i've done something you don't like and i'm grounded? i'm supposed to mess up. i'm a teenager, remember?
sheila: you're upset, i hear you...
scene direction: willow stands up
willow: no, ma, hear this! i'm a rebel! i'm having a rebellion!
scene direction: sheila smiling
sheila: willow, honey, you don't need to act out like this to prove your specialness.
willow: mom, i'm not acting out. i'm a witch! i-i can make pencils float. and i can summon the four elements. okay, two, but four soon.
scene direction: willow her mother doesn't react
willow: a-and i'm dating a musician.
scene direction: sheila disgusted now
sheila: oh, willow!
scene direction: she gets up and goes back to the table of willow's things. willow follows her.
scene direction: willow thickly sarcastic
willow: i worship beelzebub. i do his biddings. do you see any goats around? no, because i sacrificed them.
scene direction: sheila tired of it
sheila: willow, please!
willow: all bow before satan!
scene direction: sheila leaves the room
sheila: i'm not listening to this.
scene direction: willow follows her
scene direction: willow heavy on the sarcasm
willow: prince of night, i summon you. come fill me with your black, naughty evil.
scene direction: sheila loudly
sheila: that's enough! is that clear? now, you will go to your room and stay there until i say otherwise. and we're gonna make some changes.
scene direction: sheila shakes her head
sheila: i don't want you hanging out with those friends of yours. it's clear where this little obsession came from. you will not speak to bunny summers again.
scene change: cut to buffy's house. joyce is at the dining room table surrounded by posters of the two children. she has a moo button pinned to her blouse.
scene direction: her laptop is open and a phone and fax sit nearby. the place is set up like a command center. behind her is a whiteboard full of statistics.
scene direction: she speaks sternly to buffy.
joyce: i don't want you seeing that willow anymore. i've spoken with her mother. i had no idea her forays into the occult had gone so far.
scene direction: buffy in disbelief
buffy: you're the one who ordered the raid on the school today.
scene direction: joyce makes light off it
joyce: honey, they opened a few lockers.
buffy: lockers. first syllable, 'lock'. they're supposed to be private.
scene direction: and they took all of giles' books away.
joyce: he'll get most of them back. moo just wants to weed out the offensive material. everything else will be returned to mr. giles soon.
buffy: if we're gonna solve this, we need those books now.
scene direction: joyce very seriously
joyce: sweetie, those books have no place in a public school library. especially now. any student can waltz in there and get all sorts of ideas.
scene direction: joyce gets up and steps over to buffy
joyce: do you understand how that terrifies me?
buffy: mom, i hate that these people scared you so much. and i-i know that you're just trying to help, but you have to let me handle this. it's what i do.
joyce: but is it really? i mean, you patrol, you slay... evil pops up, you undo it. a-a-and that's great! but is sunnydale getting any better?
scene direction: are they running out of vampires?
buffy: i don't think that you run out of...
joyce: it's not your fault. you don't have a plan. you just react to things. i-i-it's bound to be kind of fruitless.
scene direction: buffy taken aback
buffy: okay, maybe i don't have a plan. lord knows i don't have lapel buttons...
scene direction: joyce exasperated
joyce: buffy.
buffy: ...and maybe next time that the world is getting sucked into hell, i won't be able to stop it because the anti-hell-sucking book isn't on the approved reading list!
joyce: i'm sorry. i didn't mean to put down...
buffy: yeah, well, you did.
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: it doesn't matter. i have to go. i have to go on one of my pointless patrols and react to some vampires. if that's alright with moo.
scene direction: she turns around and heads for the door. joyce just watches her go.
scene direction: buffy steps back into the room.
buffy: and nice acronym, mom.
scene direction: buffy leaves
scene direction: joyce turns around and goes back to her chair, shaking her head.
joyce: just trying to make things better.
scene direction: as she walks past the table the dead boy and girl are suddenly sitting there looking up at her.
boy: you are.
girl: there's bad people out there.
scene direction: joyce looks at them sadly.
boy: and we can't sleep.
girl: not until you hurt them.
boy: the way they hurt us.
scene direction: joyce nods, knowing what she has to do.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: the playground where the children were found. the carousel is bedecked with candles and flowers and pictures of the children. buffy quietly walks up to it. she pulls her arms to her body for warmth. to her right she notices angel approaching.
angel: hey.
buffy: hi.
scene direction: they embrace each other lovingly for a long moment. buffy looks up into his face.
buffy: how are you?
angel: i'm alright. i think i'm better than you right now.
scene direction: they both look over at the carousel.
angel: i heard about this. people are talking. people are even talking to *me*.
buffy: it's strange. people die in sunnydale all the time. i've never seen anything like this.
scene direction: they both stroll over to a bench.
angel: they were children. innocent. it makes a difference.
scene direction: they sit facing each other.
buffy: and mr. sanderson from the bank had it coming?
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: my mom...
scene direction: said some things to me about being the slayer. that it's fruitless.
scene direction: (shakes her head) no fruit for buffy.
angel: she's wrong.
buffy: is she? is sunnydale any better than when i first came here? okay, so i battle evil. but i don't really win. the bad keeps coming back and getting stronger. like that kid in the story,
scene direction: buffy gestures
buffy: the boy that stuck his finger in the duck.
angel: dike.
scene direction: buffy gives him a confused look. angel smiles.
angel: it's another word for dam.
buffy: oh. okay, that story makes a lot more sense now.
angel: buffy, you know, i'm still figuring things out. there's a lot i don't understand. but i do know it's important to keep fighting. i learned that from you.
buffy: but we never...
angel: we never win.
buffy: not completely.
angel: we never will. that's not why we fight. we do it 'cause there's things worth fighting for. those kids. their parents.
scene direction: buffy has an epiphany
buffy: their parents.
angel: look, i know it's not much.
buffy: no. no, it's a lot.
scene change: cut to the library. giles is at the table trying to do some online research. he loses his connection.
giles: session interrupted?
scene direction: giles frustrated
giles: who said you could interrupt, you stupid, useless fad! no, i said fad. and i'll say it again.
scene direction: giles types
scene direction: xander and oz walk up to him.
xander: at that point, i will become frightened.
oz: take heart. we found your books.
scene direction: giles looks at them hopefully as the two boys go to stand behind him.
xander: you can put the heart back. we can't get them. they're locked up in city hall.
scene direction: xander teases
xander: 'frisky watcher's chat room.' why, giles.
scene direction: xander slaps his shoulder
scene direction: buffy comes striding into the library. she goes straight over to giles.
xander: oh! buffy, oz and i found out...
scene direction: buffy ignores him
buffy: what do we know about these kids?
giles: what?
buffy: facts. details.
xander: well, they were, uh, found in the park.
buffy: no. where did they go to school? who were their parents? what are their names?
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses. none of the guys has answers for any of her questions.
buffy: we know everything about their deaths, but we don't even know their names.
xander: well, sure we do. um, it's on the tip of my tongue.
scene direction: oz realizes
oz: that never came up. ever.
buffy: and if no one knows who they are, where did these pictures come from?
scene direction: giles puts his glasses back on, stares at the screen
giles: i just assumed someone had the details. i never really... well, that is strange.
buffy: we need to get some information.
scene direction: giles gets up
giles: yeah, well, somebody else do it. this thing's locked me out.
xander: well, if you wouldn't yell at it.
scene direction: xander gets a look from giles
scene direction: oz takes giles' place
oz: i can look 'round, but willow would really know the sites we need.
buffy: that's great. she can't even come to the phone. the wrath of moo.
scene direction: oz types
oz: well, we don't need a phone.
scene change: cut to willow's room. she's lying on her bed idly toying with her teddy bear. then she hears her laptop beep. she goes over to her desk and brings it back to the bed. cut to the library.
oz: alright, we're linked. if anybody's id'd the kids, she'll pull it up and feed it here.
scene change: cut to willow's room. she surfs the web, looking for any leads. cut to the library. oz does his part on his end and brings up the pages as willow finds them. giles reads the text from the screen.
giles: oh. 'two children found dead. mysterious mark...' no. no. these children were found near omaha in 1949.
xander: yeah, they ain't ours. keep going.
scene direction: before oz can move on the accompanying image loads from the 'net.
buffy: wait.
scene change: cut to willow's room. she sees the same image loading on her screen and looks at it in surprise.
willow: those are...
scene change: cut to the library.
buffy: ...the same kids.
giles: fifty years ago.
scene direction: oz loads up the next page.
oz: '1899. utah... two children... rural community torn apart by suspicion.' giles:
scene direction: oz confused
oz: a hundred years ago? how is this possible?
oz: there's no mention of who they were.
buffy: they've never been seen alive, just dead. a lot.
scene direction: the next page loads. this one is dated 1649 and has a hand drawing of the two children. an instant message window pops up with a note from willow.
oz: ah. there were more articles. every fifty years. all the same.
scene direction: giles intrigued
giles: from as far back as 1649. can i see that?
scene direction: oz surrenders his place to giles. he types a bit, then reads the german and translates.
giles: written by a cleric from a village near the black forest. he...
scene direction: found the bodies himself. two children... greta strauss, age six. (types more) hans strauss, eight.
xander: so they have names. that's new.
scene change: cut to willow's room. her mother opens the door, and is upset to find her daughter online.
sheila: willow.
scene direction: sheila steps over to the bed
sheila: i thought i made myself clear. you're not minding me.
scene direction: she folds down the screen and pulls out the phone line.
willow: mom...
sheila: i see what you're doing. you're challenging me. but i will not have you communicating with your cyber-coven or what have you.
scene direction: willow sits up
willow: coven? what happened to me being delusional and acting out?
sheila: well, that was before i talked in depth with ms. summers and her associates. it seems i've been rather close-minded.
willow: so, you believe me?
scene direction: sheila sighs
sheila: i believe you, dear. now all i can do is let you go with love.
scene direction: willow doesn't like the sound of that.
willow: let me go? what does that mean?
scene direction: her mother turns and walks out of the room without saying a word, pulling the door closed behind her and locking it from the outside.
willow: mom?
scene change: cut to the library. giles paces while oz keeps looking for more information on the web.
giles: uh, wait, wait a minute. uh... uh, there is a fringe theory held by a few folklorists that some regional stories have actual, um, very literal antecedents.
buffy: and in some language that's english?
oz: fairy tales are real?
buffy: hans and gre...
scene direction: buffy her mind clicks
buffy: hansel and gretel?
xander: wait. hansel and gretel? breadcrumbs, ovens, gingerbread house?
giles: of course! well, it makes sense now.
buffy: yeah, it's all falling into place. of course that place is nowhere near this place.
scene direction: giles sits on the table
giles: some demons thrive by fostering hatred and, and, uh, persecution amongst the mortal animals. not by, not by destroying men, but by watching men destroy each other. now, they feed us our darkest fear and turn peaceful communities into vigilantes.
buffy: hansel and gretel run home to tell everyone about the mean old witch.
giles: and then she and probably dozens of others are persecuted by a righteous mob. it's happened all throughout history. it happened in salem, not surprisingly.
xander: whoa, whoa, whoa. i'm still spinning on this whole fairy tales are real thing.
scene direction: giles stands and begins to pace again.
oz: so what do we do?
xander: i don't know about you, but i'm gonna go trade my cow in for some beans.
scene direction: he gets a confused look from giles.
xander: no one else is seeing the funny here.
scene direction: buffy goes to the counter
buffy: giles, we need to talk to mom. if she knows the truth, she can defuse the whole thing.
scene direction: buffy grabs her coat
scene direction: just then michael comes running into the library with a slight limp.
scene direction: he's been beaten and bruised. he has a black eye and his face is bloody.
buffy: what happened?
scene direction: xander and oz come over to them.
scene direction: michael out of breath
michael: i was attacked!
xander: officially not funny.
buffy: by whom?
scene direction: michael hugging himself
michael: my dad. his friends. they're taking people out of their homes. they're talking about a trial down at city hall.
scene direction: they got amy.
buffy: michael, stay here and hide. giles, we'll go find my mom.
scene direction: oz gets xander's attention.
oz: willow!
scene direction: the two of them run out of the library. giles grabs his coat.
scene direction: michael calls after them
michael: tell willow to get out of her house!
scene direction: giles to michael
giles: stay in my office.
scene direction: he and buffy run out also. michael goes to hide in giles' office.
scene change: cut to willow's room. she hears the door unlock and gets up from her bed. she runs over to the door as it opens.
willow: mom, we really have to talk.
scene direction: there she sees her mother surrounded by several other adults.
sheila: it's time to go. oh, and get your coat. it's chilly out.
scene direction: willow very confused
willow: go? go where?
scene direction: sheila angrily
sheila: i said get your coat, witch!
scene direction: willow slams the door on them. the adults start to pound at it. willow desperately tries to keep them out.
scene change: cut to the living room at the summers house. several people are gathered there. joyce interviews them about their activities.
joyce: did you speak to the families on sycamore street?
woman: yes, i did.
joyce: great.
scene direction: she writes it down in her notebook. buffy opens the front door and quickly enters. giles is right behind her. joyce looks up in surprise.
joyce: buffy! mr. giles! did something happen?
buffy: mom, we need to talk to you. now.
scene direction: joyce puts down her notebook
joyce: well, of course, honey.
scene direction: joyce to the others
scene direction: um, go on without me. (goes to buffy)
buffy: no, we need to talk alone.
scene direction: they start into the dining room.
buffy: look, there's more to this than...
scene direction: suddenly joyce holds a cloth up to buffy's mouth and nose and two of the men there jump giles from behind, wrestling him to the floor. buffy quickly collapses to the floor, overcome by the fumes from the cloth.
scene direction: joyce looking down at buffy
joyce: you were right.
scene direction: joyce looks behind her
joyce: i-it was easy.
scene direction: there are the two children standing on the stairs. the boy is holding a bottle of chloroform in his hand.
gretel: i told you.
hansel: it gets even easier.
scene direction: buffy isn't completely knocked out yet, and can hear the conversation.
gretel: but i'm still scared of the bad girls.
scene direction: buffy's vision begins to blur.
hansel: you have to stop them. you have to make them go away. forever.
scene direction: buffy passes out.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the living room in the rosenberg house. oz and xander run in.
scene direction: oz yells
oz: willow!
scene change: oz runs for her room. xander is right behind him. cut to her room. the boys barge in and see that it's a shambles. it's clear there was quite a struggle. they waste no time running back out.
scene change: cut to city hall. a crowd is gathered in a room. a few of them are bearing torches. they all calmly watch as two of them finish tying willow and amy to stakes.
sheila: hold still. be a good girl.
scene direction: buffy is between willow and amy, unconscious and also tied to a stake.
scene direction: piled all around them are the library books that moo has deemed offensive, ready to burn in a glorious blaze.
willow: no! why are you doing this to me? mom?
sheila: there's no cure but the fire.
scene direction: amy struggles against her ropes
amy: buffy! wake up!
willow: this is crazy, mom!
amy: buffy! buffy!
scene change: cut to the summers house. cordelia kneels over giles and gives him a sharp slap to the face.
cordelia: wake up!
scene direction: she slaps him two more times, and he begins to come out of it. she is about to slap again, when he suddenly reaches up and blocks her swing.
giles: cordelia?
cordelia: took you long enough to wake up. my hand hurts.
giles: pity.
scene direction: giles rubs his temples
giles: oh... why are you here?
cordelia: things are way out of control, giles. first the thing at school, and then my mom confiscates all of my black clothes and scented candles.
scene direction: cordelia giles sits up
cordelia: i came over here to tell buffy to stop this craziness and found you all unconscious... again. how many times have you been knocked out, anyway?
scene direction: cordelia giles finds his glasses
cordelia: i swear, one of these times, you're gonna wake up in a coma.
scene direction: giles puts his glasses on
giles: wake up in a... oh, never mind.
scene direction: giles struggles to his feet
giles: we need to save buffy from hansel and gretel.
scene direction: he heads for the front door. cordelia follows him out.
cordelia: now, let's be clear. the brain damage happened *before* i hit you.
scene change: cut to city hall. oz and xander slam up against the doors and barge in.
scene direction: there they encounter four men guarding the doors to the room where the girls have been tied up. the two boys stop to face the men.
xander: what's with the grim? we're here to join you guys.
scene direction: they slowly approach the men, who eye them suspiciously.
xander: no, really. why should you guys have all the fun? we wanna be part of the hate.
oz: just so we're clear, you guys know you're nuts, right?
scene direction: the men lunge for the boys, who make a fast break and run down the hall.
scene change: cut to buffy and willow. buffy begins to stir back to consciousness.
willow: buffy!
scene direction: buffy struggles against her bonds.
joyce: good morning, sleepyhead.
scene direction: buffy imploringly
buffy: mom, you don't want this.
joyce: since when does it matter what i want? i wanted a normal, happy daughter. instead i got a slayer.
scene direction: sheila joins joyce bearing a torch.
sheila: torch.
scene direction: joyce takes it
joyce: thanks. this has been so trying. you've been such a champ.
sheila: oh, you, too, joyce.
joyce: we should stay close, have lunch.
sheila: oh, i'd like that. how nice.
scene direction: joyce bends down to set fire to the books.
amy: oh, you can't be serious!
buffy: mom, don't!
scene direction: joyce touches the torch to the books, and they begin to burn. others with torches set the books ablaze all around them.
amy: alright. you wanna fry a witch? i'll give you a witch! goddess hecate, work thy will!
buffy: uh-oh.
scene direction: amy's eyes turn pitch black, and the energy of her spell begins to swirl around her.
amy: before thee let the unclean thing crawl!
scene direction: she shivers as the spell's power increases around her, building ever greater strength. finally, since she hasn't directed the spell at anyone else, it works on her. she is engulfed by a sudden burst of flame.
scene direction: people in the crowd scream as they watch. an instant later amy's clothes are empty, and they and the ropes drop to the books below. everyone stares in amazement. buffy and willow look over to see what happened to her. then a rat comes crawling out of amy's clothes. it scampers down the pile of books and scurries across the floor. the frightened adults jump out of its way. buffy can only watch amy go.
buffy: she couldn't do us first?
scene direction: willow desperately
willow: you've seen what we can do! another step and you will all feel my power!
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: what are you gonna do, float a pencil at 'em?
willow: it's a really big power!
scene direction: the people stare at them in shock and horror.
buffy: yes! you will all be turned into vermin. and some of you will be fish! yeah, you in the back will be fish!
man in back: maybe we should go.
scene direction: the children suddenly appear.
hansel: but you promised.
gretel: you have to kill the bad girls.
scene change: cut to giles' car. he and cordelia race to city hall. cordelia looks through the things giles brought with them.
scene direction: cordelia disgusted
cordelia: i can't believe you had this stuff in your apartment. it smells foul.
giles: shred the wolfsbane. that's the, uh, the leafy stuff. and then you can crush the satyrion root.
scene direction: giles tries to remember a spell
giles: luften sie den something. schlumer? schluter?
scene direction: cordelia crushing the roots
cordelia: what are you muttering about?
giles: it's a part of an incantation. it's in german, and without my book...
cordelia: what does it mean?
giles: it's about, uh, lifting a veil. um, it should, uh, make the demons appear in their true form, which with any luck, will, uh, negate their influence. and, uh, drop a toadstone into the mixture.
scene direction: cordelia picks it up
cordelia: this?
scene direction: cordelia sniffs it
cordelia: it doesn't look like a toad.
giles: no reason it should. it's from inside the toad.
scene direction: cordelia quickly drops it in
cordelia: i hate you.
scene change: cut to city hall. oz and xander have lost the posse and are trying to find another way in. they each struggle with doors, but they are all locked.
oz: we gotta get inside.
scene direction: they look around for where to go next. then they hear willow cry out.
willow: no! oh, god, help!
oz: will?
xander: it sounds like she's right... above us?
scene direction: oz hops up on a bench below a ventilation shaft grate. he bangs on it a couple of times and it gives way. he climbs in. xander is right behind.
scene change: cut to a high view of the crowd from behind buffy. the fires are getting bigger, but still haven't reached the girls. hansel and gretel stand at the front of the crowd as they watch the flames grow and advance.
gretel: they hurt us.
hansel: burn them.
scene direction: buffy desperately
buffy: mom, dead people are talking to you. do the math!
joyce: i'm sorry, buffy.
buffy: mom, look at me! you love me. you're not gonna be able to live with yourself if you do this!
joyce: you earned this. you toyed with unnatural forces. what kind of a mother would i be if i didn't punish you?
scene change: cut to the hall outside. giles and cordelia barge into the hall. giles hears the noises coming from inside and rushes over to the doors, but finds them locked. he looks around in desperation, and unexpectedly reaches into cordelia's hair and pulls out a hairpin.
cordelia: ouch! you got hair with that!
scene direction: giles ignores her protests and kneels down in from of the doors. he carefully inserts the pin into the lock and begins to pick it.
cordelia: god, you really were the little youthful offender, weren't you? you must just look back on that and cringe.
giles: shh!
scene direction: cut inside. the flames are getting very close to willow.
willow: buffy, i can't take it! it's too hot!
buffy: i'm sorry, will. if it wasn't for me, none of this would have happened.
scene direction: giles gets the door open, and comes in.
buffy: it wouldn't be...
scene direction: buffy sees giles
scene direction: giles points cordelia to a fire hose in the corner. she goes to it and smashes the glass with her elbow, holding up her hand to protect her face from the glass. the noise gets the crowd's attention.
joyce: stop them!
scene direction: cordelia pulls out the hose and turns it on, spraying the advancing crowd. giles starts reciting his incantation in very bad, unintelligible german, muffled by the sound of the water spraying.
scene direction: cordelia to the people
cordelia: you like that? huh? how 'bout some more!
scene direction: in spite of all the spraying, not very much water has gotten on the flames, and they have gotten dangerously close to willow.
willow: buffy, i'm on fire!
buffy: cordelia, put out the fire!
cordelia: oh, right.
scene direction: she turns the stream of water on the flames and quickly douses them.
scene change: cut to the ventilation shafts. oz and xander are still trying to find their way to the room.
scene change: cut to the room. cordelia gets the last of the flames extinguished and turns off the water. hansel and gretel slowly walk up to them. buffy and willow pant in relief. the children keep closing in on giles. giles raises the bottle with his potion high and recites an incantation.
giles: ihr goetter, ruft euch an! verbergt euch nicht hinter falschen gesichtern!
translation: you gods, i call upon you! do not hide behind false faces!
scene direction: he throws the bottle to the floor, smashing it in front of the children.
scene direction: the potion begins to steam around them. hansel and gretel look at each other and embrace. a moment later the two children morph into a single demon standing over seven feet (215cm) tall. its ears are pointed and huge fangs jut from its lower jaw. its skin is red and mottled and its hair is long and tangled.
cordelia: okay, i think i liked the two little ones more than the one big one.
scene direction: sheila and joyce stare up at the demon in horror. the other people in the room all run out screaming. the demon turns to face buffy. out of her trance now, joyce looks at the two girls tied up and helpless against him.
joyce: oh, my god!
demon: protect us! kill the bad girls!
buffy: you know what? not as convincing in that outfit.
scene direction: the demon roars and comes at her. buffy struggles with her bonds, trying to get free. the ropes don't give, but the stake breaks. it's top heavy now, and forces buffy to bend over so the tip is pointing at the demon, who can't stop his advance and impales himself through the neck. sheila and joyce look on in disgust. buffy can't straighten herself back up with the weight of the demon's body at the other end of the stake, and so can't see the result of her unwitting maneuver.
buffy: did i get it? did i get it?
scene direction: suddenly the ceiling gives way above them, and oz and xander come crashing down. the books break their fall. they look up weakly at buffy and the dead demon.
oz: we're here to save you.
scene change: cut to willow's house on another night. cut into her room. she and buffy have a number of bowls and jars of powders and potions laid out. several candles are burning. willow idly crushes some herbs in a bowl.
buffy: your mom doesn't mind us doing this in the house?
willow: she doesn't know.
buffy: business as usual?
willow: hmm, sort of. she's doing that selective memory thing your mom used to be so good at.
buffy: she forgot everything?
scene direction: willow ruefully
willow: no. she remembered the part where i said i was dating a musician.
scene direction: she takes a pinch of the herbs she's crushed and sprinkles it onto a ceremonial iron plate set out between the girls.
willow: oz has to come for dinner next week. so, that's sort of like taking an interest.
scene direction: buffy looks down at their preparations and sighs
buffy: okay, should we try this again?
willow: let's do it. i think we got the mix of herbs right this time.
buffy: okay. ready?
scene direction: she lights a match and sets it to the mixture of herbs and roots on the plate while willow recites her spell. it begins to burn, emitting purple smoke.
willow: diana, hecate, i hereby license thee to depart. goddess of creatures great and small, i conjure thee to withdraw.
scene direction: willow and buffy both look over at amy the rat. she gets up on her hind legs expectantly. nothing happens, though, and she gets back down on all fours, seemingly disappointed. buffy looks over at willow.
buffy: maybe we should get her one of those wheel thingies 