scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: a cave. there is a thick mist obscuring the view. a red-eyed, bluish- gray skinned demon angrily searches through the fog for those who have attacked it and its kindred, two of which already lie dead on the cave's floor. faith is standing in an alcove watching the demon's movements.
scene direction: buffy is up on a ledge, watching the demon anxiously. giles is off in a corner waiting for the right moment. willow slowly steps around the corner of the cave entrance carrying a large lit candle. when she's in view of the main chamber and senses the moment is right, she quietly speaks her spell.
willow: obscurate nos non diutius.
translation: do not conceal any longer.
scene direction: she blows out the candle, and a wind quickly sucks the fog out of the cave. the demon is now clearly visible to everyone. its teeth are sharp, yet there are no fangs. it has very long pointed ears and a series of horns starting just above its eyes and continuing up on its high, thick forehead. it growls as it turns around, trying to get a clear look at what's there. when it's facing her, buffy jumps from the ledge and tackles the demon to the ground. giles comes out of his corner and grabs one of its arms. buffy grabs the other as she scrambles to her feet, and together they drag the demon up and slam it against a wall. it wraps its arm around giles' shoulder and throws him off. he hits an adjacent wall and falls to the ground.
scene direction: buffy yells
buffy: now!
scene direction: faith comes out of her alcove holding a sword up in both hands and charges the demon. before it can react, faith has plunged the sword through its heart. the demon screams in agony. giles looks up and watches as faith pulls the sword back out of the demon's chest. buffy releases it and allows it to fall. giles rolls out of the way as it hits face down on the ground. he rolls back a bit and looks at the body lying next to him. faith lowers her sword. buffy looks down at the demon, relieved that the fight is over.
giles: i think that was the last.
scene direction: willow comes in from the entrance, visibly shaken but trying to cover it with a smile. buffy bends down to help up giles.
buffy: willow, you okay?
scene direction: willow breathing hard
willow: yeah, i'm fine. th-the shaking is, is a side effect of the fear.
scene direction: giles on his feet
giles: thank you.
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses and rubs his brow
buffy: well, if it wasn't for that clouding spell...
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: yeah, it went good!
scene direction: willow glances at the candle
willow: nothing melted like last time.
faith: these babes were wicked rowdy. what's their deal?
giles: i wish i knew.
scene direction: he crouches down and rolls the demon over to get a good look at it.
scene direction: faith looks with disgust at another one of them.
giles: most of my sources have dried up since the, uh, council has relieved me of my duties. i was aware there was a nest here, but quite frankly, i expected it to be vampires. these, these are new.
buffy: and improved.
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: yes. i'm sorry. i should've had you better prepared, and i should never have allowed willow and, uh...
scene direction: giles looks around
giles: and, uh...
scene direction: they all realize that xander is nowhere to be seen. just then they hear something stirring under a pile of garbage. there they see xander crawling out from under a collapsed cardboard box and other refuse.
scene direction: xander out of breath
xander: i'm good. we're fine.
scene direction: xander gets up
xander: just a little bit dirty.
scene direction: xander gives two thumbs up
xander: good show, everyone.
scene direction: xander staggers out into the cave
xander: just great. i think we have a hit.
scene direction: willow concerned
willow: are you okay?
xander: tip-top,
scene direction: xander exhales
xander: really. if anyone sees my spine laying around, just try not to step on it.
scene direction: buffy worried
buffy: xander, one of these days, you're gonna get yourself hurt.
faith: or killed.
buffy: or both. a-and, you know, with the pain and the death, maybe you shouldn't be leaping into the fray like that. m-maybe you should be...
scene direction: fray-adjacent.
scene direction: xander slightly miffed
xander: excuse me? who, at a crucial moment, distracted the lead demon by allowing her to pummel him about the head?
faith: yeah. that was real manly how you shrieked and all.
scene direction: xander haughtily
xander: i think you'll find that was more of a bellow.
buffy: uh, what do we do with the trio here? should we burn them?
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: i brought marshmallows.
scene direction: everyone gives her a surprised look. giles puts his glasses back on.
scene direction: willow with dignity
willow: occasionally, i'm callous and strange.
giles: i expect we can leave them. i'm more interested in finding out what they are, and whether we can expect more of their kind.
scene direction: buffy starts out of the cave
buffy: i hope not. they're *way* too fit.
scene direction: faith is right behind her.
xander: i say bring 'em on!
scene direction: willow follows the slayers out. giles steps up to xander and puts his hand on his shoulder.
giles: uh, xander, i think in the future perhaps it would be best if you, you, uh, h-hung back to the rear of the battle, you know, for your own sake.
scene direction: he lets go of the boy and takes one more look around before following the others out. xander is just ahead of him.
scene direction: xander facetiously
xander: but, gee, mr. white, if clark and lois get all the good stories, i'll *never* be a good reporter.
scene direction: giles not getting it
giles: hmm?
xander: jimmy olsen joke, sir. pretty much gonna be lost on you, huh?
giles: sorry.
xander: hey, it's okay.
scene direction: they continue walking out.
scene direction: opening credits roll. buffy's theme plays.
scene change: *** part 1 ***
scene change: sunnydale high school. cut to a lawn area between two of the buildings.
scene direction: it's lunch hour, and two jocks are throwing a football back and forth.
scene direction: xander hops around, trying to get their attention.
xander: hey, doug, pass me one!
scene direction: doug just gives him an annoyed look and throws the ball back to the other jock.
xander: les-man, i'm open!
scene direction: a cheerleader looks over at him to see what the fuss is about.
xander: les, buddy!
scene direction: les ignores him and throws the ball back to doug.
xander: doug, right here, man. right here.
scene direction: doug is about to throw the ball back to les.
xander: doug, please!
scene direction: doug sighs and gives in. he throws the ball high and long. xander has to run for it.
xander: alright! it's all me!
scene direction: he gets to the ball in time, but fumbles the catch. the ball bounces awkwardly away from him and over to jack o'toole, sitting alone eating his lunch. the ball hits jack in the hands, knocking his bag of chips to the ground. he looks down at his scattered chips in surprise and snatches up the ball. xander stops running and steps up to him. jack stands up, holding the ball in his hands.
xander: boy, i am *so* sorry. doug's arm is kinda like spaghetti.
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: we're all so very sad for him.
scene direction: xander grins
xander: is your lunch okay?
scene direction: jack not amused
jack: what are you, retarded?
xander: no! no, i had to take that test when i was seven. a little slow in some stuff, mostly math and spatial relations, but certainly not challenged or anything.
scene direction: xander points down
xander: can i get you another soda?
jack: i oughtta cut your face open.
scene direction: xander nervous
xander: hey, hey, whoa, whoa, whoa... it was an accident.
scene direction: cool down.
scene direction: jack smiles thinly
jack: you wanna be startin' somethin'?
xander: what? starting something?
scene direction: xander grins
xander: like that michael jackson song, right?
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: that was a lot of fun. 'too high to get over, yeah, yeah...' remember that fun song?
scene direction: jack takes a step toward him. xander steps away nervously.
jack: i get my buddies together, we're gonna kick your ass till it's a brand-new shape.
scene direction: xander knows he's not kidding. jack tosses the ball to him hard.
jack: now get outta here.
scene direction: xander wastes no time walking away.
doug: yo, man, the ball!
scene direction: xander throws it to him. cordelia is right there, and he steps over to her.
cordelia: boy, of all the humiliations you've had i've witnessed, that was the latest.
scene direction: xander points back at jack
xander: i could've taken him.
cordelia: oh, please. o'toole would macrame' your face. he is a psycho.
scene direction: which is still a lot cooler than being a wuss.
scene direction: xander glances at jack
xander: why is it that i've come face-to-face with vampires, demons, the most hideous creatures hell ever spit out, and i'm still afraid of a little bully like jack o'toole?
cordelia: because, unlike all those creatures that you've come face-to- face with, jack actually noticed you were there.
xander: why am i surprised by how comforting you're not?
cordelia: it must be really hard when all your friends have, like, superpowers -- slayer, werewolf, witches, vampires -- and you're, like, this little nothing.
scene direction: cordelia xander looks down
cordelia: you must feel like jimmy olsen.
scene direction: xander chuckles
xander: i was just talking to...
scene direction: xander suddenly offended
xander: hey, mind your own business!
cordelia: ooo, i struck a nerve. the boy that had no cool.
xander: i happen to be an integral part of that group. i happen to have a *lot* to offer.
scene direction: cordelia starts to leave
cordelia: oh, please.
xander: i do!
scene direction: cordelia stops and turns back
cordelia: 'integral part' of the group? xander, you're the, the *useless* part of the group. you're the zeppo.
scene direction: cordelia xander glances at jack
cordelia: 'cool.' look it up. it's something that a sub-literate that's repeated twelfth grade three times has, and you don't.
scene direction: she turns and walks away with a satisfied smile on her face. xander is left in her dust.
cordelia: there was no part of that that wasn't fun.
scene change: cut to the cafeteria. today it's kraut-dogs or spaghetti. the camera pans past the steam table as the kitchen staff doles out the food. it pans up to show xander and oz sitting at a table finishing their lunch.
xander: but... it's just that it's buggin' me, this 'cool' thing.
scene direction: xander cut to them
xander: i mean, what is it? how do you get it? who doesn't have it? and who decides who doesn't have it? what is the essence of cool?
oz: not sure.
scene direction: oz reaches for a chip
xander: i mean, you yourself, oz, are considered more or less cool. why is that?
oz: am i?
scene direction: oz eats a chip
xander: is it about the talking? you know, the way you tend to express yourself in short, noncommittal phrases?
scene direction: oz considers
oz: could be.
scene direction: xander smiles
xander: i know! you're in a band! that's like a business-class ticket to cool with complementary mojo after takeoff! i gotta learn an instrument. is it hard to play guitar?
scene direction: oz shakes his head
oz: not the way i play it.
xander: okay, but on the other hand: eighth grade. i'm taking the flügelhorn and gettin' *zero* trim. so the whole instrument thing could be a mislead.
scene direction: xander thinks
xander: but you need a thing, one thing nobody else has. what do i have?
oz: an exciting new obsession. which i feel makes you very special.
xander: now with the mocking. which i can handle because i know i'm right about this. i'm on the track. i just need to find my thing.
scene direction: xander gets lost in thought
oz: it seems like you're over-thinking it. i mean, you got some identity issues. it's not...
scene change: cut to the library that evening. giles walks out of the cage past buffy.
giles: the end of the world?
scene direction: giles heads behind the counter
scene direction: buffy turns
buffy: can they do that?
scene direction: buffy goes to the counter
giles: they seem fairly committed.
scene direction: giles gets a book
giles: the sisterhood of jhe
scene direction: giles brings it over
giles: is an apocalypse cult. they exist solely to bring about the world's destruction, and we've not seen the last of them. more will follow.
buffy: and they're here in sunnydale for what? demon expo?
scene direction: giles takes off his glasses
giles: buffy, this is no laughing matter.
buffy: hence my no laughing.
giles: i'm sorry.
scene direction: giles slips his glasses back on
giles: i know i'm no longer your official watcher, but...
scene direction: the library door opens, and they look up to see oz come in.
oz: hey.
buffy: hey.
scene direction: the clock on the wall behind giles shows it's 5 20pm.
scene direction: giles checks his watch
giles: um, y-you're cutting it a bit close.
scene direction: oz steps into the cage
oz: well, you know me.
scene direction: he pulls the door closed behind him. the privacy towels have already been put up. he begins to undress, starting with his jacket.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: well, do we know why they're here?
giles: i think so.
scene direction: giles looks around
giles: based on some artifacts i, i found with them, and, um,
scene direction: giles sees and reaches for another book
giles: taking into account the current astral cycle...
scene direction: buffy interrupts
buffy: giles, i don't need to see the math.
scene direction: he puts down the book and steps back to the counter.
scene direction: giles seriously
giles: they intend to open the hellmouth.
scene direction: buffy looks up in surprise
buffy: the hellmouth. the one that opens...
giles: about twenty feet from where you're standing.
scene direction: she looks behind her at the area where it last opened nearly two years before, where the study table stands surrounded by a semi-circle of low book shelves and the stack level behind them. oz has turned into a werewolf and leaps up against the cage. he growls when he can't break through, looks up and howls.
scene change: cut to the front of the school the next morning. willow and buffy are arriving.
willow: and if it opens?
buffy: do you remember the demon that almost got out the night i died?
willow: every nightmare i have that doesn't revolve around academic failure or public nudity is about that thing. in fact, once i dreamt that it attacked me while i was late for a test and naked.
buffy: well, it'll be the first to come out, and giles says it won't be the worst by a long shot. the world will be overrun with demons if we don't stop it.
scene direction: they start to cross the street toward the steps.
willow: do we know when this is supposed to happen?
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: giles is trying to narrow it down. i-if you're up for it, we're heading into deep research mode.
willow: i'd be offended if you haven't already counted me in.
buffy: thanks, will. there's something about this one that... scares me.
scene direction: buffy puts her arm around her friend
buffy: i need my willow.
willow: oh, you don't have to be afraid...
scene direction: they've reached the other side of the street, and both jump when they hear a car pull up behind them with the horn honking. they spin around to see what's going on. there they see xander behind the wheel of a light blue 1957 chevrolet bel air convertible, pulling it to a stop. the radio is blaring. xander looks cool in his shades and black jacket.
xander: you girls need a lift?
buffy: what is this?
xander: what do you mean, what is it?
scene direction: xander gestures around himself
xander: it's my *thing*.
willow: your thing?
scene direction: xander emphatically
xander: my *thing*!
scene direction: buffy frowns uncertainly
buffy: is this a penis metaphor?
scene direction: xander sighs heavily
xander: it's my thing that makes me cool. you know, that makes me unique.
scene direction: xander sees their blank looks
xander: i'm car guy. guy with the car.
willow: how can you afford it?
xander: uncle rory stacked up the duis, let me rent this bad boy till he's mobile again.
scene direction: xander turns off the radio
scene direction: buffy tries to smile
buffy: well, i-it's nice.
xander: could you sound a little less enthused?
buffy: sorry.
willow: evil.
xander: big?
buffy: biggest. maybe more than i can handle.
scene direction: xander pulls off his shades
xander: then we'll handle it together. you know i'm here for you. just tell me what i can do.
scene change: cut to the doughnut shop. xander stands at the counter and places his order.
xander: i'll take two glazed, two cinnamon, couple cream-filled, and a jelly. no, no, let's round that out to four jellies.
scene direction: the clerk pulls them out and puts them in a box. cordelia walks in.
scene direction: cordelia mockingly
cordelia: ooo, is some evil going on? must be big for them to entrust you with this daredevil mission.
scene direction: xander counts out his money
xander: cordelia. feel free to drop dead of a wasting disease in the next twenty seconds.
scene direction: xander hands it to the clerk
scene direction: cordelia pleased
cordelia: ooo, again, i strike the nerve. i am the surgeon of mean.
scene direction: xander walks past her with the box
xander: i'm kinda busy right now, okay?
scene direction: cordelia turns around
cordelia: right. buffy needs your help. can you say 'expendable'?
scene direction: xander faces her
xander: you think you know everything.
scene direction: cordelia steps up to the counter
cordelia: i think i know you.
xander: that's a laugh.
scene direction: cordelia tauntingly
cordelia: oh, what, you got a shiny car, and now you're someone new? like anybody even cares about...
scene direction: she is interrupted by a sexy blonde approaching xander.
lysette: is that your car?
scene direction: xander surprised by the attention
xander: why, uh...
scene direction: xander smiles
xander: yes! it is!
scene direction: she walks around the car, checking out the equipment, surveying it closely.
lysette: '57 chevy bel air... 283 cid... solid lifter... fuel-injected v-8...
scene direction: xander has no idea
xander: uh... very possibly.
scene direction: lysette abruptly
lysette: how does she handle?
scene direction: cordelia is fascinated by this display.
xander: like a dream about warm, sticky things.
scene direction: he shoots cordelia a look. she just raises her eyebrows at him.
scene direction: xander to the girl
xander: would you like to go for a little drive?
lysette: you busy?
scene direction: xander holds up the doughnut box
xander: just gotta drop this stuff off, and then i would describe myself as...
scene direction: xander making a face at cordelia
scene direction: expendable.
scene direction: cordelia gives him a little huff. the blonde smiles at xander and tilts her head, indicating he should open the door for her. he does so, giving cordelia a glance as lysette gets in. he closes the door and jumps up onto the back seat and scrambles over to the driver's seat. he has some difficulty sitting down with the huge steering wheel in the way, but manages well enough. lysette doesn't care, obviously more impressed with the car than with him. xander starts the car, puts it in drive, gives cordelia one last look and burns a bit of rubber as he pulls away from the curb.
scene change: cut to the bronze that evening. xander and lysette are sitting at a table with their drinks. he looks very bored as he listens to her chattering on.
lysette: ...and then i started seeing dave peck. had a thunderbird, engine completely tricked out, but the upholstery was kind of shot. so then i started seeing his friend mike. not the mike with the mercedes. the mike with the mustang. an '82 v-6. you know the look.
scene direction: xander sees angel come into the bronze.
xander: angel!
scene direction: lysette looks toward the entrance. xander stands up and waves him over with a smile.
xander: buddy! friend-buddy.
scene direction: xander gestures at the table
xander: you wanna sit and talk?
scene direction: angel comes over
angel: i'm looking for buffy.
xander: library, last i saw.
angel: something's happening. i've seen portents.
scene direction: xander grins
xander: the apocalypse. they're on top of it.
angel: i don't think they know what they're dealing with.
xander: let's go there... and tell them that.
angel: no.
scene direction: angel waves him off
angel: it's best you stay out of harm's way.
scene direction: he turns and leaves.
scene direction: xander desperate to get away
xander: but i can help!
scene direction: he watches angel go out the door.
lysette: hey, you wanna go for another drive?
scene direction: that's pretty much the last thing on xander's mind.
scene direction: cut outside. xander and blondie come out and walk to the car parked in the alley just a short ways from the door.
xander: y'know, it's not like i haven't helped before. y'know, i've done some quality violence for those people.
scene direction: xander opens the door
xander: do they even think about that?
scene direction: lysette gets in and slides over to the passenger's side. xander gets in and pulls the door closed.
xander: i mean...
scene direction: xander starts it, puts it in drive
xander: they act like i'm, like i'm some sorta klutz.
scene direction: he steps on the gas without even looking ahead. the car lurches forward and promptly hits the car parked in front of them. xander slams on the brakes and puts the car into park.
xander: oh, god! are you alright?
scene direction: he gets out of the car and gingerly steps to the front of the car. there is only some slight bumper damage and a broken taillight on the other car.
xander: oh, god! stay calm. little fender bender. it's not...
scene direction: he sees jack o'toole get out of the other car, looking angrily back at him. jack just stands and stares at xander for a long moment, letting the fear sink in.
scene direction: xander apprehensive
xander: ...the end of the world.
scene change: *** part 2 ***
scene direction: the library. werewolf oz growls in his cage as he stares at willow and buffy sitting at the table. willow looks over her shoulder at him.
willow: he's cranky.
buffy: it's a good night for it.
willow: can't dogs sense when there's an earthquake, a-a-and they bark?
scene direction: or cows lie down or something? (looks at oz again)
scene direction: buffy reads
buffy: 'sisterhood of jhe. race of female demons, fierce warriors...' eww. '...celebrate victory in battle by eating their foes.' they couldn't just pour gatorade on each other?
scene direction: giles come out of his office carrying a heavy leather bag.
giles: the council wouldn't even take my calls.
scene direction: giles disgusted
giles: idiots.
scene direction: giles to the girls
giles: anything useful in the books?
buffy: not wildly.
scene direction: buffy closes hers
willow: we still have the books of pherion to go through.
scene direction: giles nods.
scene direction: buffy sets her book down
buffy: i'm getting itchy feet, giles. we don't turn up something soon, i'm gonna hit the streets.
scene direction: buffy grabs and opens another
buffy: maybe check out willy's.
giles: fine.
scene direction: he goes back into his office for his overcoat.
willow: where are you going?
giles: um, to try and contact the spirit guides.
scene direction: giles takes his overcoat from its hanger
giles: they exist out of time, but have knowledge of the future.
scene direction: giles pulls it on
giles: i have no idea if they will respond to my efforts, but i have to try.
scene direction: giles comes back from his office
giles: all we know is that the fate of the entire world rests on it.
scene direction: giles looks into the doughnut box
giles: did you eat all the jellies?
scene direction: buffy looks up from her book.
scene direction: buffy innocently
buffy: did you want a jelly?
scene direction: giles petulantly
giles: i always have a jelly. i'm always the one that says 'let's have a jelly in the mix.' willow: we're sorry.
scene direction: giles tattles quickly
giles: buffy had three.
scene direction: buffy shoots willow a look.
giles: no matter.
scene direction: giles grabs his bag
giles: if xander makes another run...
scene direction: giles starts to go
buffy: no.
scene direction: buffy giles stops
buffy: xander's out of this. he nearly got killed last time we fought. this whole thing will be easier if we know he's safe.
scene change: cut to the alley outside of the bronze. jack approaches xander menacingly.
scene direction: xander nervously
xander: oh, gosh, jack, man, are, are you okay?
scene direction: xander points at the bumpers
xander: i am really sorry about that. but your car came out of nowhere.
scene direction: jack looks down at the damage and back up at xander.
scene direction: jack incredulous
jack: i was parked.
xander: exactly. look, i can cover the damages. i don't have insurance in the strictest sense of the word, but i have a little money. the important thing is that we're alright and we can work this out like two reasonable...
scene direction: jack pulls out a very long hunting knife and holds it up.
xander: ...frontiersmen.
scene direction: jack points the knife at xander
jack: where do you want it?
xander: what?
jack: where do you want it?
xander: i'm fairly certain i don't want it at all, but, uh, thank you.
scene direction: lysette bored and impatient
lysette: wow. cool knife.
scene direction: xander gives her a look. she rolls her eyes and walks back to the car.
xander: yeah. great knife. although i think, uh, it may technically be a, a sword.
jack: she's called 'katie'.
xander: you gave it a girl's name. how very serial killer of you.
scene direction: xander turns to lysette
xander: listen, i think we should be going.
scene direction: jack reaches around xander with the knife and hooks it behind his ear, forcing xander to look at him. xander quakes with fear.
scene direction: jack jeeringly
jack: are you scared?
scene direction: he traces the tip of the blade around xander's neck and cheek.
scene direction: xander shakily
xander: would that make you happy?
scene direction: jack sneering
jack: your woman looking on, you can't stand up to me? don't you feel pathetic?
scene direction: he traces the knife past xander's mouth, back to his ear and around and down under his chin.
scene direction: xander nervously
xander: mostly i feel katie.
jack: you know what the difference between you and me is?
xander: again... katie's springing to mind.
jack: fear. who has the least fear.
xander: and it has nothing to do with who has the big, sharp...
scene direction: suddenly jack slaps the knife into xander's hand and steps back, taunting him to fight.
jack: come on.
scene direction: xander has no idea where to begin. the blonde distracts him.
lysette: i wanna go for a drive. i'm bored.
scene direction: he lowers the knife and his guard.
scene direction: xander sarcastically
xander: oh, gee, i'm really sorry my life-and-death situation isn't *exciting* enough for you...
scene direction: jack grabs him and shoves him back onto the hood of the car. he grabs xander's hand and twists it so the knife is pointing at his neck and begins to bear down on him. just then a flashlight shines into jack's face.
police officer: hey!
scene direction: jack releases xander and quickly palms the knife. the officer turns off his flashlight and slowly approaches.
police officer: what's goin' on?
jack: nothing. just rasslin'.
scene direction: police officer recognizes
police officer: o'toole.
scene direction: police officer chuckles
police officer: what a surprise.
scene direction: police officer flashes the light in his face
scene direction: police officer to xander
police officer: he attack you?
scene direction: xander looks at jack, who just looks at the officer.
scene direction: xander to the officer
xander: no. just blowing off steam.
scene direction: xander grins
xander: two guys rasslin'.
scene direction: xander shakes his head
xander: but not in a gay way.
police officer: do it somewhere else, huh?
scene direction: he turns and leaves. xander drops his head in relief. behind him jack has a smile on his lips. remembering that he's there, xander looks over at him and is confused by his expression.
xander: what?
jack: that was alright. could've narc'd on me. didn't do it. that's decent of you. i like you.
scene direction: jack smiles appraisingly
scene direction: xander still nervous
xander: yay?
scene direction: jack to lysette
jack: you two wanna have some fun?
scene direction: lysette smiles dippily
lysette: like, with driving?
jack: yeah.
scene direction: xander sees the broad grin on her face and shakes his head, giving in.
xander: what do you have in mind?
jack: well, i was on my way to get the boys. gonna cruise around.
scene direction: jack checks out xander's chevy
jack: we'll take your wheels.
xander: what about your car?
scene direction: jack looks at it and shakes his head
jack: it ain't mine.
scene direction: xander is aghast and shakes his head. jack goes to the car door.
xander: great. where to?
scene direction: jack opens the door and slides in to the far side.
jack: gonna get the boys!
scene direction: lysette slides in next to jack, then xander gets in.
xander: yeah.
scene direction: xander pulls the door closed
xander: so, where're the boys?
scene change: cut to a cemetery. the camera pans behind some trees and over to the three of them by a grave. xander and lysette watch as jack speaks a spell and dangles a chicken foot on a string over a grave.
jack: he calls forth the spirit of uurthu, the restless. no one shall speak.
scene direction: jack raises his arms
jack: he shall arise! hear me...
scene direction: xander watches, worried that it might work. lysette is completely bored.
jack: the blood of the earth shall restore him...
scene direction: he puts away the chicken foot and kneels by the grave. he drawn his knife across the palm of his hand, turns his hand over and lets his blood drip onto the grave.
jack: and he shall arise.
scene direction: xander takes a step back. something under the ground begins to move.
jack: shall arise!
scene direction: a pair of arms punch through the grass followed by a head. it's jack's friend bob. he has a huge frown on his face as he looks around. jack stands up and steps back. lysette's eyes go wide with surprise. bob pulls himself out the rest of the way and gets up, still frowning and disoriented. jack looks him up and down, pleased with the result. bob looks over at jack and recognizes his friend.
bob: buddy.
jack: bob.
scene direction: they look at each other for a moment. bob has clearly started to decay, but is still easily recognizable.
jack: you big, hideous corpse... come here!
scene direction: bob comes at jack and grabs him in a huge bear hug, lifting him off the ground and laughing. lysette freaks out and runs away, screaming at the top of her lungs. xander watches her go.
scene direction: xander resentfully
xander: i'll call ya!
scene direction: bob keeps laughing as he swings jack around a bit before putting him back down.
bob: man! you *raised* me!
scene direction: jack looks him up and down
jack: i *told* you grandpappy could work that mojo. big bob is back in action!
scene direction: bob raises his arms
bob: yes!
scene direction: they each butt hard into the other in celebration. xander fidgets restlessly, waiting to see what's going to happen next.
bob: oh, man, i can't believe you raised me! that is so awesome!
scene direction: bob starts to calm down, lets go of jack
bob: you are the coolest.
xander: maybe i should just let you guys catch up.
scene direction: xander starts to go
jack: bob, this is xander. he's our wheel man.
scene direction: xander turns back around and smiles.
bob: hey.
scene direction: he steps up to xander and slaps him hard in the shoulder, making him stagger back a few steps. xander manages to keep his balance and straightens back up.
xander: howdy.
scene direction: bob steps back to jack
bob: dude, where are the other guys? we gotta go get 'em.
scene direction: jack nods
jack: absolutely.
scene direction: bob pats him on the arm
bob: alright.
scene direction: they start walking to get the rest of the boys. xander stays back.
xander: are, um... are all your friends dead?
scene direction: jack over his shoulder
jack: xander, let's roll.
bob: how long i been down?
jack: eight months. i had to wait till the stars aligned.
bob: oh, eight months. i got some catching up to do.
scene direction: he stops in his tracks and points at jack.
bob: whoa! walker, texas ranger. you been taping 'em?
jack: every ep.
scene direction: xander catches up with them.
bob: alright. we're gonna get the guys together, and we're gonna party, man!
scene direction: bob hits xander hard in the other shoulder
bob: it's gonna be a night to remember!
scene direction: bob they start walking again
bob: yeah!
scene direction: xander trailing them
xander: i'm sensing that.
scene change: cut to dickie's grave. jack weaves his spell again.
jack: the blood of the earth shall restore him, and he shall arise.
scene direction: dickie comes up head first. he is far more decayed than bob. his face is raw and bloody, but he is also still recognizable.
dickie: dudes!
scene change: cut to the car. the camera is low to the pavement showing the back of the car. the tires squeal as the four boys take off for another cemetery to get the last member of the group.
scene change: cut to the restfield cemetery. the camera pans low along some gravestones and up to the sign. cut to giles standing before a large mausoleum and holding up a lit candle. the spirit guides appear in the form of a bright cloud gathering in front of the mausoleum, and giles speaks to them.
giles: noli me renuere, umbra ducens. sapienta manium super me effundatur.
translation: do not deny me, spirit guide. let the wisdom of those who have passed be showered upon me.
spirit guides: illae res occultae sunt tempoti et locis obscuris.
scene direction: enuntiare illas chaos super orbem vivum terrarum ferat.
translation: these secrets belong to time and the dark regions. to reveal them would bring chaos down upon the living earth.
giles: belua propulsanda est! invenire vitium suum noster spes sola est!
translation: the beast must be fought! our only hope lies in finding its weakness!
scene direction: a strong wind begins to blow.
scene direction: spirit guides angrily
spirit guides: noli petere! perturba nos non diutius!
scene direction: translation angrily
translation: seek not! disturb us no longer!
scene direction: the cloud moves away and up into the sky. the wind stops blowing. the cloud splits in two, and both halves disappear up into the firmament.
scene direction: giles isn't happy with the result of the encounter. he looks to his right when he hears xander approaching.
xander: giles, hey...
scene direction: xander smiles
xander: what's goin' on?
giles: oh, uh,
scene direction: giles looks at the mausoleum
giles: i was just trying to, uh, gain access to the, um, spirit guides. not going very well, i'm afraid.
scene direction: giles looks around
giles: uh, what are you doing here?
scene direction: giles packs his things
xander: oh, we were just raising, um...
scene direction: xander glances back at the others
scene direction: some heck.
scene direction: jack and the others, having raised the last member of their group, are waiting by the car for xander.
scene direction: jack impatient
jack: xander! let's go!
scene direction: xander kneels by giles
xander: listen, do you guys need any help?
scene direction: giles concentrating on packing
giles: hmm? oh, no. thank you. uh, probably best if you, you stay out of trouble.
xander: no chance of that.
scene direction: jack impatient
jack: xander! motor!
scene direction: giles stands up
giles: there's something... different about this... menace, something in the air... the stench of death.
xander: yeah, i think it's bob.
scene direction: giles absently
giles: we may all be called upon to fight when it happens.
scene direction: giles picks up his bags
xander: when what happens, exactly?
scene direction: jack very impatiently
jack: come on!
giles: i better go.
scene direction: giles smiles weakly
giles: um, hopefully, we shall have time to prepare. all we need is a few weeks.
scene direction: giles turns and leaves
scene change: cut to willy's bar. the place has been completely trashed. buffy is kneeling down next to willy, who is lying on the floor behind the bar with his head and shoulders propped up against the cabinets. he's been very badly beaten, and the blood flows freely from several cuts in his head.
buffy: tonight?
scene direction: willy nods, laboring to breathe
willy: before sunrise. that's what they said.
scene direction: willy winces in pain
scene direction: buffy looks at the damage
buffy: why did they do this?
willy: they were looking for angel.
buffy: angel? why?
scene direction: willy breathing shallowly
willy: said they were coming after you, too, and nothing could stand in their way because
scene direction: willy winces in pain
willy: tonight was the night...
scene direction: severe pain stabs him in the gut, and he turns from her and coughs.
scene direction: willy painfully
willy: oh, man...
scene direction: buffy worried
buffy: the ambulance is on its way.
scene direction: willy coughs, swallows
willy: look, kid, my clientele ain't exactly nuns and orphans, but i... i never seen anything like these demons.
buffy: i'm gonna stop them.
scene direction: willy coughs
willy: that hellmouth opens
scene direction: willy swallows
willy: they're gonna be the least of your problems is my train of thought.
scene direction: he winces in pain again and coughs, then swallows again.
scene direction: willy between shallow breaths
willy: if i were you... i'd go find angel... go somewhere quiet together. i'd be thinking about how i wanna spend my last night on earth.
scene change: cut to xander and the gang. bob is standing in the back seat with his fists raised into the air.
bob: let's get some beer! yeah!
scene direction: the other dead boys yell in agreement. parker, the last one of the group to be raised, is in an advanced state of decay, and so is in much worse shape than the others. his face is beyond recognition, having lost much of its flesh, exposing parts of his skull. xander can't believe he's caught up in all of this.
parker: dude! let's go pick up some girls, man. we'll hang out at taco bell, get some girls, go cruise around...
scene direction: they all laugh, except for xander.
dickie: i wanna bake a cake.
scene direction: bob slides back down into the seat with an arm around each of his buds.
bob: hey, we need some beers, though.
scene direction: parker to bob
parker: i can't believe you got shot, man. was it them jackals?
jack: are you kidding? we wiped them out after they threw you off the bridge.
scene direction: parker appreciatively
parker: oh, man. you guys, you guys are the best, man. the best! i mean that.
scene direction: bob explains to parker
bob: there's a liquor store. little armenian guy runs the place? he had a gun behind the counter.
scene direction: he looks ahead, frowning in disgust. the bullet hole in his forehead above his left eye is plainly visible. he brightens when he has an idea.
bob: hey... we should go kick his ass!
parker: yeah!
bob: yeaaaaah!
scene direction: xander glances back at them nervously.
xander: if you guys want me to drop you off somewhere, that's...
scene direction: jack interrupts, pats xander's shoulder
jack: nah. you're with us now.
scene direction: parker reaches up to him from behind and pats him on neck and cheek with his grossly rotten hands.
parker: oh yeah, man, you on the team now, baby. whoo-hoo!
scene direction: the guys in the back all chuckle.
scene direction: bob serious
bob: what're we gonna do?
jack: well, i've heard some interesting suggestions, but i'm gonna have to go with dickie's. let's bake a cake.
dickie: yeaaaaah!
bob and parker: yeaaaaah!
scene direction: bob laughs as he leans back over the trunk and raises his fists into the air.
scene change: cut to a hardware store. xander pulls the car to a stop in front.
jack: alright.
scene direction: he gets out. dickie pushes the front backrest forward and gets out. bob and parker just jump over the side of the car.
scene direction: jack to xander
jack: you stay here and keep the motor running.
scene direction: jack joins the others
xander: uh, this time of night, i'm pretty sure nothing's open.
scene direction: bob grabs a newspaper vending machine, yanks it from the sidewalk and heaves it into the hardware store window. it shatters loudly. xander watches nervously.
xander: but they're always open for *crime*.
scene direction: the dead boys all climb into the store. xander holds on tightly to the steering wheel and fidgets nervously in his seat.
xander: okay. now i'm involved in crime. i'm the criminal element.
scene direction: xander sarcastically
xander: having a car sure is cool!
scene direction: he hears willow's voice, and turns to see her leaving the magic shop about half a block down on the other side of the street.
willow: thank you. sorry to wake you.
scene direction: willow starts down the street
shopkeeper: no problem.
xander: will!
scene direction: she sees him and walks into the street toward him. xander gets out of the car and goes to meet her.
willow: xander, what are you doing here?
xander: nothing. certainly not crime.
scene direction: xander grins guiltily and glances behind him
xander: wh-what about you?
scene direction: willow worried
willow: i-i needed supplies for a protection spell. buffy called from angel's. i-it's happening tonight.
xander: and that thing that's happening would be...?
willow: i-i can't stay. buffy'll needs this.
scene direction: she goes, leaving xander standing there still unenlightened. just as quickly she comes back and gives him a tight hug. she lets go and looks up at him.
willow: i love you, xander.
scene direction: again she hurries off, leaving him to ponder his next move.
xander: okay, that's it.
scene direction: xander turns back to the car
xander: i'm gonna...
scene direction: jack steps in front of him and stops him.
jack: where you going?
xander: look, something's just come up.
scene direction: xander looks at the store
jack: you gonna bail on me? is that it?
scene direction: xander's response is interrupted by the noise of the others coming out of the hardware store. dickie holds up two bags full of ingredients for him to see.
scene direction: dickie smiling
dickie: we got the cake mix!
scene direction: dickie puts the bags in the car
parker: where you wanna bake it?
scene direction: jack ominously
jack: xander's looking to leave.
bob: no way.
scene direction: bob comes around the car
bob: we need a wheel man.
scene direction: bob stands behind xander
scene direction: dickie and parker walk around the other way.
scene direction: jack menacingly
jack: xander doesn't feel like he's part of the group.
scene direction: xander placatingly
xander: no. it's just i'm kinda busy!
scene direction: bob comes around to xander's left. parker stands to his right.
bob: he doesn't feel like part of the group because he hasn't been initiated.
jack: do you think he's ready?
scene direction: parker puts his arm around xander
parker: oh, i think he's earned his stripes. i say we let him in, boys. huh?
scene direction: dickie chuckles
dickie: woo-hoo!
scene direction: xander grins
xander: great!
scene direction: xander nods
xander: i wanna be in the gang, sure!
parker: alright!
scene direction: parker nudges him in the gut
parker: yeah.
scene direction: jack lifts his finger to xander
jack: that's the spirit.
parker: yeah.
scene direction: xander smiling, getting into it
xander: what do i gotta do?
scene direction: jack pulls out katie and holds the blade to his face. xander's smile is instantly replaced with fear.
scene direction: jack twists the blade threateningly
jack: you gotta die.
scene direction: parker pats xander affectionately on the cheek.
scene change: *** part 3 ***
scene direction: in the street in front of the hardware store.
scene direction: xander nervously
xander: alright, guys, what... let's just talk about this.
parker: aw, you wanna be part of the gang now, don't you?
scene direction: jack leers at him, constantly turning his knife.
xander: yes, yes, but i'm not *dying* to be in the gang, if you get the, um... the pun there.
scene direction: bob insulted
bob: what? you're, you're too good to be dead?
scene direction: he grabs xander by the lapels of his jacket and lifts him up.
bob: you got a problem with dead people?
scene direction: xander shakes his head and mouths "no", thinking quickly.
xander: what about jack? jack's not dead.
scene direction: jack lowers his knife, reaches down and raises his shirt for xander to see. there is a series of bullet holes across his gut. bob releases xander so he can get a better look. jack drops his shirt back down and brings katie back up level to xander's face.
jack: drive-by three weeks ago.
scene direction: xander exhales
xander: oh, boy.
jack: grandpappy found my body. i wasn't gone but ten minutes before he raised me. it's a rush, man.
scene direction: dickie smiling
dickie: let's kill xander. it'll be fun!
parker: yeah, man, you could be a full-fledged member.
scene direction: jack steps closer and sneers
jack: come on, xander. take it like a man.
scene direction: xander takes a chance
xander: alright, enough! you guys have had your fun, but you forgot about *one* thing.
scene direction: he looks at bob and parker, and then makes a break for it.
jack: get him!
scene direction: xander runs across the street and into the outside seating area of the espresso pump. they all give chase. xander waits for them to follow him into the cafe', then makes another break for it, jumping up onto a table and hopping over the low wall surrounding the area. he runs back across the street and jumps into the car. the motor is still running, so he throws it into drive, floors it and burns rubber out of there, leaving the dead guys behind.
bob: damn him!
scene direction: bob throws up his hands
bob: there goes the wheels.
scene direction: parker plaintively
parker: he took all our stuff, man.
dickie: i wanna bake a cake.
scene direction: jack seething with anger
jack: it's alright. we'll get more. the night is young.
scene direction: they all head back into the hardware store for more supplies.
scene change: cut to xander driving along the street, very relieved to have escaped.
xander: i'd say that's pretty much enough excitement for one evening.
scene change: cut to a park. faith gets thrown against a fence, pulled off and thrown against it again by a member of the sisterhood of jhe. the demon pulls her off again, but faith shakes loose and does a backhand swing at the demon's head, making it snap hard to the side. faith then punches it in the gut and tries for a second hit to the head, but the demon blocks the attempt, grabs faith's arms and throws her to the ground. faith rolls and comes back up to a fighting stance. the demon lunges at her, but she kicks it in the knee and then roundhouse kicks it in the head. without pausing, faith launches into a half spinning high wheel kick, which the demon blocks with both arms. the demon throws faith's leg down, grabs onto her jacket and swings her around and back into the fence. back in the street xander rounds a corner and sees the fight in the park ahead of him. the demon rushes faith, who grabs the fence behind her and lifts herself up to do a twin push kick to the demon's gut, shoving her back hard. xander sees his opening, and just drives right into the demon, knocking it back quite a ways onto its ass. he backs the car out into the street again as faith watches. the demon gets back to its feet and starts her chase.
scene direction: xander to faith
xander: get in!
scene direction: faith runs to the car and dives into the back seat. xander guns it just as the demon catches up, but she can't run fast enough to grab hold of the car, and is left in their dust.
scene change: cut to faith's motel. xander pulls the car to a screeching halt in a parking spot. they both run out and up the stairs to her room, watching for any pursuers. faith opens the door and runs in. xander is right behind her and swings the door shut.
xander: you think demon mama followed us?
scene direction: he checks out the window, but doesn't see anything. he rushes over to the other window and checks there, too, but again sees nothing.
faith: no, we're cool.
scene direction: faith takes off her jacket
faith: the bitch dislocated my shoulder, though.
scene direction: she tosses her jacket aside, careful not to move her arm too much.
scene direction: xander comes back over to her.
faith: hold me.
scene direction: he looks at her a bit confused, but gets closer and reaches out to her.
scene direction: faith takes his right hand and puts it on her left upper arm. he finally realizes that he's supposed to hold it steady. she reaches up with her right hand and grabs hold of his jacket for leverage. she pulls her left shoulder back and jerks it forward. her shoulder audibly snaps back into place. faith heaves a sigh and rotates her shoulder around in different positions.
faith: that's better.
scene direction: faith sniffs
faith: she got me really wound up.
scene direction: she looks at xander and runs her hand over his chest. she inhales and exhales deeply.
faith: a fight like that and... no kill... i'm about ready to pop.
scene direction: she smiles at him, still rubbing her hand over his chest.
scene direction: xander nervously
xander: really?
scene direction: xander looks down at her rubbing hands
xander: pop?!
scene direction: faith smiles sexily
faith: you up for it?
scene direction: she runs her other hand down the back of his neck.
scene direction: xander nods
xander: oh, i'm up.
scene direction: she smiles at him and gets closer. she stops rubbing his chest and lowers her hand to his crotch.
xander: i'm suddenly *very* up. it's just, um...
scene direction: xander grins sheepishly
scene direction: i've never been up with people before.
scene direction: faith grabs his jaw and kisses him full on the lips with plenty of tongue.
faith: just relax... and take your pants off.
scene direction: she starts to push his shirt and jacket off of his shoulders.
xander: those two concepts are antithetical.
scene direction: she yanks his shirt and jacket down his back and off his arms, and throws them down. they lock in a passionate embrace and kiss each other hard. faith turns him around and shoves him back onto the bed. she jumps up after him and straddles him.
faith: don't worry.
scene direction: faith pulls off her own shirt
faith: i'll steer you around the curves.
scene direction: she grins broadly down at him. xander looks back up at her with more than a little apprehension on his face.
xander: did i mention that i'm having a very strange night?
scene change: cut to a shot of their reflection in the tv. faith is on top of xander under the sheet, moving slowly and purposefully.
scene change: cut to them cuddling afterward. xander runs his fingertips across her upper arm. they gaze into each other's eyes for a while. faith smiles at him.
scene direction: cut outside her motel room door. she opens it and nudges xander out. he has only his underwear on and holds the rest of his clothes in his arms.
scene direction: faith is wrapped up in the bed sheet.
faith: that was great. i gotta shower.
scene direction: she closes the door on him. he just stands there, unsure of what just happened. he looks at the door again, and soon realizes he's just been used. mouth agape, he makes his way back to his car.
scene change: cut to the library. werewolf oz is jumping around in the cage, very agitated. willow watches him, very worried.
willow: i've never seen him like this.
scene direction: giles comes up behind her with the dart gun and hands it to her.
giles: it's the hellmouth. he can sense it's going to open. be ready just in case.
scene direction: willow checks the rifle as giles goes to the cage to open it. he looks back at her before he does.
giles: now don't hesitate.
scene direction: willow raises the weapon to her shoulder and takes aim, anxious about having to hurt oz.
willow: do it.
scene direction: giles unlocks the door.
giles: now oz...
scene direction: oz leaps up against the door and throws it open, knocking giles to the floor. he takes a leap toward willow, but she's ready and pulls the trigger. the dart flies from the barrel and hits him in the side, and he yelps and falls to the floor. it's not enough to keep him down in his agitated state, though, and he gets back up on all fours. behind him giles scrambles to his feet.
giles: again!
scene direction: willow retreats as she inserts another dart into the gun. oz is weakened, but he lunges toward her. giles runs to get him from behind.
scene direction: oz jumps up onto the table just as giles catches up and grabs him around the chest. oz raises himself up on his hind legs, growling fiercely as giles gets an arm around each of his, exposing his chest. willow takes the shot, and the werewolf yelps again. this time the phenobarbital does its job, and oz collapses onto the table, dragging giles down on top of him. the wolf pants shallowly as willow steps up to him and soothingly pets the thick fur on his head.
giles: we've got to move him before he wakes up.
scene direction: willow remorsefully to oz
willow: sorry. i hope you're not mad at me in the morning.
scene change: cut to faith's motel. xander pulls on his jacket and gets into his car.
scene direction: he checks himself in the rearview mirror and thinks about what just happened. he sighs and looks into the back seat. there he sees the two bags of stolen ingredients and grabs one to see what's inside. in it he finds a can of kerosene, a short length of galvanized pipe with caps, wire, primer cord and an electronic timer switch. he takes a second look at the can of kerosene and realizes that the "cake" really isn't.
xander: hey! they're not baking any cake.
scene direction: he quickly sets the can aside and starts the car.
scene change: cut to the hardware store. he comes to a stop in front of it. the place is a mess, but jack and his gang are nowhere to be seen.
xander: long gone. probably loaded with supplies. gotta think.
scene direction: he looks into the store and tries to concentrate.
xander: i can't believe i had sex.
scene direction: xander catches himself
xander: okay, bombs.
scene direction: already-dead guys with bombs. (realizes) oh, man, i'm outta my league!
scene direction: buffy'll know what to do.
scene direction: he takes off for angel's mansion.
scene change: cut to the mansion. buffy and angel are inside arguing.
scene direction: buffy pleading
buffy: i don't know what to do.
angel: then let me decide for you. i can face this thing.
scene direction: buffy protests
buffy: you can't.
angel: look, i, i can at least buy you enough time for willow's spell to bind it.
scene direction: she stares speechlessly at him.
angel: buffy, this is worse than anything we've ever faced. it's the only way.
scene direction: buffy voice cracking
buffy: i can't watch you die again.
scene direction: he lifts his hand to her cheek and rubs it gently, looking deeply into her eyes.
angel: i love you.
scene direction: buffy takes his hand
buffy: i love you.
angel: nothing can change that. not even death.
scene direction: she jerks his hand away and steps back, angry about his defeatist attitude.
buffy: don't talk to me like that! *you* may be ready to go, but *i* am not ready to lose you. okay, this is my fight, and if you won't do it my way, then you're...
scene direction: she is interrupted by xander clearing his throat. she turns to face him.
scene direction: xander grins
xander: hey. i've got this, um... there's this, uh...
scene direction: xander grins sheepishly
scene direction: buffy and angel look at him expectantly. xander sees the sadness in their faces and the tear streaks on buffy's cheeks.
scene direction: xander awkwardly
xander: it's probably a bad time.
scene direction: he turns to go, but looks back at them again.
xander: can i help?
scene direction: they both shake their heads at him.
xander: okay.
scene direction: he walks out the door. buffy turns back to angel, and they look at each other sadly.
scene change: cut to the atrium at the mansion. xander walks to the stairs and starts up and out.
xander: okay, i can work this out. i just got to figure out what they'd be likely to bomb.
scene change: cut to sunnydale high school at night. cut to the library. giles has cleared away the table and chairs and painted a black circular figure on the floor. eight rays extend from the edge. inside are four small semicircles which mark the four corners. at the center three short lines intersect. a lit candle stands on each line and a fourth at their intersection. all around the circle and the room are more candles. giles is busy lighting them as he recites a spell from a book.
giles: terra, vente, ignis et pluvia. cuncta quattuor numina, vos obsecro. defendete nos a recente malo resoluto.
translation: earth, wind, fire and rain. linger four gods, we implore you. defend us, immediately after i will release you.
scene direction: willow returns to the library with the tranquilizing gun and sets it down on the counter as she passes by.
willow: okay. oz is moved. he could barely walk after that mickey i gave him, but we made it. is he gonna be alright there?
giles: anywhere is safer than here. um, help me with the candles.
scene direction: he tosses her the lighter, which she catches.
willow: we're doing the binding spell from the hebron's almanac?
giles: yes, but once it's ready,
scene direction: giles lights a match
giles: you're to stay back and let me finish the recitation.
scene direction: giles willow starts to protest
giles: don't argue. i want you safe. who knows what's going to come up from beneath us.
scene direction: willow crouches down and starts lighting more of the candles.
scene change: cut to the boiler room. dickie puts the finishing touches on the bomb.
scene direction: they have it assembled on top of an oil barrel. dickie plugs in the timer, and switches it on.
parker: whoo!
scene direction: he taps the keys and sets it for sixty minutes. dickie plugs in the last wire, and the countdown starts. they all chuckle under their breaths.
scene direction: jack walks up to the bomb and checks it out.
jack: this is gonna be large!
scene direction: jack smiles at parker
parker: oh, yeah!
scene direction: dickie checks the wiring once more as they all laugh.
scene change: *** part 4 ***
scene direction: the streets. xander drives to the school.
scene direction: xander frantically
xander: giles will know what to do. he's *way* more calm than buffy.
scene direction: he turns a corner and sees the dead boys walking and laughing.
xander: okay, i got a plan.
scene direction: jack and bob hear him approaching and turn around.
bob: hey, our wheels.
scene direction: the group splits up, and xander drives up between them, slowing down as if to stop. parker is right up by the car, so xander reaches out and grabs him.
parker: hey!
scene change: xander hits the gas and takes off, dragging parker alongside. cut around the next corner. xander drives around it and weaves the car side to side. the other boys chase him. cut to xander holding onto parker.
scene direction: parker scared
parker: stop! c'mon, man! stop!
xander: where's the bomb?!
parker: it's in, it's in the high school!
xander: in the school where?!
parker: oh, god, this really, really hurts!
scene change: cut to the street. xander screeches around the next corner.
parker: stop!
scene change: cut to parker.
parker: it's in the, it's in the boiler room.
xander: alright. now i'm gonna ask you this once, and you better pray you get the answer right.
scene direction: parker still scared
parker: okay, okay.
xander: how do i defuse...
scene direction: he never finishes his question, because he drives too close to a curbside mailbox, and the impact knocks parker's head off. xander screams in horror at the sight and releases his hold on parker's now- headless body. he looks back at the others and guns the car.
scene direction: xander chagrined
xander: i probably should've left out that whole middle part.
scene direction: bob and dickie keep up the chase. jack stops to check on parker.
dickie: he's headed for the school!
scene change: cut to a hall in the school. xander barges through a door and runs past the basement access door. he comes back to it and notices the sign stating "door to remain locked at all times". jack, bob and dickie crash through the hall door and start to chase him.
jack: there he is!
scene direction: xander starts to run down the hall again.
xander: where's a slayer when you need one?
scene change: cut to the library. the hellmouth has opened, and the same huge, green, multi-headed, tentacled demon that erupted from it less than two years before looms over the heads of buffy, faith, angel, giles and willow, only now it's much larger. bolts of energy flash about like lightning.
giles: oh, my god. it's grown.
scene direction: the camera passes through the group to the doors, where xander runs by followed a moment later by jack and then bob and dickie in rapid succession. dickie is distracted by the noise and lights coming from the library and backtracks to have a look. he peers in through one of the round door windows and sees the hellmouth demon waving its three heads around.
dickie: wow.
jack: c'mon, man!
scene direction: dickie joins the chase again.
scene change: cut to another hall. the dead boys have lost xander. they open a set of doors and stop at the hall intersection.
bob: which way?
jack: he couldn't have gotten far. let's split up.
scene direction: bob goes right, dickie goes left and jack heads straight ahead.
scene change: cut to the stairs by the student lounge. bob comes bounding down and stops at the base. he looks around and notices a fire ax on the wall. he smashes the glass and pulls it out.
bob: good for chopping.
scene direction: he heads into the student lounge. a moment later xander runs into the student lounge and runs up to the couches. from off to the side bob swings the ax at him. xander reacts fast and stops short of being sliced, but loses his balance and falls backward onto a table. he rolls off of it and onto the floor. quickly he scrambles to his feet, but immediately gets knocked onto another table by a punch from bob.
bob: now this is what i call fun.
scene direction: he wields the ax back and swings it down at the table. xander rolls away just as the head of the ax embeds itself into the table, and he comes up standing next to bob. he backhand punches bob in the face, stunning him, grabs him and swings him around head first into another table. bob falls to the floor and lies there on his back, dazed by the impact. xander pulls the ax from the other table, looks down at bob and goes over to a vending machine. he slips the blade of the ax behind the machine and uses the handle as a lever to pry it away from the wall. it tilts over and falls right onto bob's head, crushing it.
scene direction: back out in the hall dickie comes through a door and runs into the student lounge. he sees bob's body lying there and stops, looking at it aghast. xander steps out into the open holding up the ax.
xander: should've learned by now. if you're gonna play with fire, you gotta expect sooner or later...
scene direction: dickie takes off running before xander can finish delivering his clint eastwood line.
scene direction: xander insulted
xander: i wasn't finished!
scene direction: dickie disappears back out the same door he came in.
xander: note to self: less talk.
scene direction: he starts to run after dickie.
scene change: cut to the hall outside the library doors. suddenly the doors burst open, and buffy comes flying out backward, landing almost at the far end of the hall by the door leading outside. the three heads of the hellmouth demon come slithering through the doors after her. buffy gets up and runs back at it.
buffy: faith! go for the heart!
scene change: cut to another part of the hall. dickie runs around a corner and disappears down an adjacent hall. xander is right behind him with the ax. a moment later xander comes running back with dickie right behind him. right on their heels are three members of the sisterhood of jhe.
scene direction: xander runs into a room and off to the side. dickie follows him but runs through it to the nurse's office. he whips the door open, runs in and finds himself trapped. the demons run in after him and start ripping him apart. xander takes a few deep breaths to calm himself.
xander: okay, boiler room.
scene direction: he turns back toward the door, but is stopped by one of the heads of the hellmouth demon when it breaks through the wall next to him.
xander: other way.
scene direction: the head roars after him as he runs away.
scene change: cut to the basement. xander kicks open the door, enters cautiously and makes his way down the stairs. at the bottom he opens the door to the boiler room and looks in. there in the middle of the room he sees the bomb. the timer is ticking away.
xander: hello, nasty.
scene direction: he steps into the room and closes the door behind him. he gingerly goes over to the bomb and checks the timer as he sets down the ax.
scene direction: xander breathing hard
xander: less than two minutes. dumb guy. little bomb.
scene direction: how hard can it be?
scene direction: suddenly jack grabs him from behind and throws him into a work bench. he hits it hard and falls to the floor. xander gets back up only to find himself face-to-face with jack.
jack: and it just got harder.
xander: i'm not leaving till that thing's disarmed.
jack: then i guess you're not leaving.
scene direction: he swings a right at xander, which he blocks. jack swings a high left, which xander ducks. jack swings a right again, and this time hits xander in the jaw, making him stagger back into a wall. jack pulls katie out and tries to stab xander, but he catches jack's arm and manages to hold him back. jack doesn't let up, though, and keeps pressing into him.
scene direction: xander glances over at the bomb, which is ticking away.
scene direction: jack angrily
jack: i'm gonna carve you up and serve you with gravy. you piss me off, boy. now you pay the price. first the eyes, then the tongue. i'm gonna break every one of your fingers.
xander: you gonna do all that in forty-nine seconds?
scene direction: jack looks over at the bomb, and xander seizes the opportunity to push him back, grab him by the jacket and shove his head into the wall. he pulls him back from the wall and punches him in the face. jack comes back up unfazed, grabs xander by the pants and flips him over onto a crate. he quickly gets back up, and the two boys start to come at each other again, but then stop when they realize they don't have time for this. jack glances over at the exit sign above a door.
xander: i know what you're thinkin'. can i get by him? get up the stairs, out of the building, seconds ticking away... i don't love your chances.
jack: then you'll die, too.
scene direction: xander raises his eyebrows
xander: yeah, looks like. so i guess the question really is... who has less fear?
scene direction: jack tries to psyche xander out
jack: i'm not afraid to die. i'm already dead.
xander: yeah, but this is different. being blowed up isn't walking around and drinking with your buddies dead. it's little bits being swept up by a janitor dead, and i don't think you're ready for that.
scene direction: he's proven right when jack makes a move for the door. xander matches his move, and jack realizes there's no way he can get out. they face each other from opposite sides of the bomb. xander is oddly calm whereas jack is clearly afraid.
jack: are you?
scene direction: xander glances at the bomb, smiles thinly
xander: i like the quiet.
scene change: cut to the library. angel and faith fight one of the sisterhood. she swings at angel, but he ducks the punch. he swings at her, and hits her dead in the face. giles swings at the hellmouth demon with an ax, still trying to force it back the rest of the way as he recites the rest of the binding spell.
giles: omnia... vasa... veritatis!
translation: all things... the vessel... of truth!
giles: now, buffy!
scene direction: from above him, at the stack level, she starts to swing at the creature with a battleaxe.
scene change: cut to the boiler room. the two boys are still facing off with the bomb between them. the timer counts down the last few seconds.
scene direction: 12, 11, 10, 9...
scene direction: the boys stare each other down, both taking deep breaths.
scene direction: 8, 7, 6...
scene direction: xander stands his ground. jack is starting to have second thoughts.
scene direction: 5, 4...
scene direction: xander gives jack a little frown, saying in essence, 'too late now.' 3, 2...
scene direction: jack caves and quickly reaches in and pulls a wire. the timer goes blank. he drops the wires and pulls his hands away. it takes xander a moment to realize that it's over.
xander: good boy.
scene direction: he steps over to jack and looks him straight in the eyes.
xander: i don't think i wanna be seeing you on campus anymore, jack.
scene direction: he goes over to the door he entered from, gives jack one last look, opens it and leaves, closing it behind him. jack walks toward the other door.
jack: i'm not going anywhere, harris. the first time you turn your back...
scene direction: he pulls the door open, and werewolf oz jumps out at him. jack screams as he hits the floor and gets mauled.
scene change: cut to the school the next day. students come and go as though nothing has happened. dissolve to the quad. students go about their business.
willow: even after the hellmouth was closed, you could still hear it screaming.
scene change: dissolve to her, buffy, giles and oz sitting at a lunch table. they all sit quietly. dissolve to a close-up of giles and oz.
oz: but angel's gonna be okay?
scene direction: the camera pans over to buffy and willow. buffy's right arm is in a sling.
buffy: he was only out for a few minutes. longest of my life.
scene direction: willow shakes her head
willow: i will never forget that thing's face. its *real* face, i mean.
giles: yes.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: i don't know how you managed.
scene direction: buffy he looks up at her
buffy: it was the bravest thing i've ever seen.
scene direction: giles grins
giles: stupidest.
scene direction: he turns his face revealing several nasty scratches across his left cheek, ear and neck.
giles: but the world continues to turn.
willow: no one will ever know how close it came to stopping. never know what we did.
scene direction: xander finds them
xander: guys...
willow: xander. boy, you're lucky you weren't at school last night. it was crazed.
scene direction: xander shrugs
xander: well, uh, gimme the quiet life.
scene direction: xander grins
xander: i'm gonna grab a snack. anyone want?
scene direction: giles quietly
giles: no, thank you.
xander: oz?
oz: no. i'm oddly full today.
xander: okay.
scene direction: he goes to get his snack, but runs into cordelia, who is eager to begin the game again.
cordelia: ooo, look, it's mr. excitement. on another life-or-death doughnut mission, or are we just cruising for bimbos again, giving them lessons in lack of cool?
scene direction: he just smiles at her. if only she knew. of course, she doesn't have a clue.
cordelia: what?
scene direction: he smiles more broadly and just walks past her.
scene direction: cordelia unnerved
cordelia: what?
scene direction: xander just keeps walking away, never looking back.
scene direction: cordelia insistently
cordelia: what?!