scene change: ~~~~~~~~~~ prologue ~~~~~~~~~~ fade to white.
scene direction: a white sheet descends and we see buffy draping it over a bed. she is in her bedroom at home making her bed. through the windows it looks like its late afternoon as sunlight shines into the room.
scene direction: buffy smoothing the edges
buffy: they smell good, don't they? the camera pulls back and we see faith on the other side of the bed, matching buffy's movements.
faith: what?
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: clean sheets. like summer.
faith: i wouldn't know.
scene direction: buffy stops smiling
buffy: right. i forgot.
faith: i noticed.
scene direction: buffy hesitantly
buffy: i-i wish i could stay, but...
faith: oh, you have to go.
buffy: it's just with...
scene direction: faith knowingly
faith: little sis coming. i know. so much to do before she gets here.
scene direction: they've worked their way to the foot of the bed now and are beside each other.
scene direction: buffy regretfully
buffy: now i really have to--.
faith: so go. don't let me keep--.
scene direction: she stops as she hears something. she looks down and sees that two drops of blood have hit the sheet, a dark red on the clean white. two more drops quickly follow.
scene direction: faith looks at buffy
faith: damn. just when we made it so nice.
scene direction: she straightens and looks down at her body as she faces buffy. she lifts her eyes to meet buffy's, whose expression has suddenly become stoic.
scene direction: faith concerned
faith: are you ever gonna take this thing out?
scene direction: she indicates to her abdomen. close up of buffy's hand wrapped around the handle of faith's large knife; the one buffy had stabbed her with. cannot see the blade because most of it is in faith's stomach and blood is seeping from the wound.
scene direction: buffy's face is emotionless as she gazes into faith's eyes. a second later, she suddenly jerks the knife upwards. horrified, faith opens her mouth in a silent scream.
scene change: cut to a close up of the screen of a heart monitor. it is beeping steadily with the heartbeat it's monitoring. the camera pans to show us a drab, blue wall with the paint peeling showing plaster. the room is dimly lit. there is an iv stand next to the bed, the tube leading to the comatose patient lying there.
scene direction: faith is in a room that obviously doesn't see much human presence.
scene direction: from a window we cannot see, lightning flashes outside and splashes across her face.
scene direction: faith continues to sleep.
scene direction: wolf's howl. buffy theme and credits roll.
scene change: *** part one ***
scene direction: fade in. close up of an initiative taser rifle. the top panel of the weapon is off and hanging to the side, trailing wires, as xander examines the inside with a pair of pliers in his hand.
xander: so, here it is. the latest in state-of-the-art combat technology. i gotta say, it doesn't look that complicated. the camera pulls back and we're in xander's basement. he has the weapon on the counter. willow is standing next to him with tools in her hands should he need them. buffy is standing behind them. behind her, giles is seated on the couch folding a basket of laundry on the coffee table.
buffy: so can you repair it?
xander: sure. as soon as i get my master's degree in advanced starship technology.
scene direction: frustrated, xander drops the pliers on the counter and lets the rifle fall on its side.
willow: well, why don't we experiment?
scene direction: willow eagerly
willow: press some buttons, see what happens.
scene direction: giles folding a pair of boxers
giles: uh, i-i'd like to veto that.
xander: second. it's called a blaster, will, a word that tends to discourage experimentation. now, if it were called the orgasm-ator, i'd be the first to try your basic button press approach.
buffy: just tell me. can you repair it or not?
scene direction: buffy turns and walks towards the couch. xander rights the rifle again and picks up a screwdriver.
xander: but if i blow a hole in my mom's azalea patch the neighbors will not be pleased.
scene direction: buffy sits down on the couch and rests her head on the palm of her hand, tiredly.
giles: are you alright?
scene direction: giles he moves to sit closer to her
giles: you've been patrolling round the clock for three days straight now. i thought you could use some...
scene direction: buffy lifts her head
buffy: what? some rest? there's a demonoid killing machine out there giles, it doesn't only work the night shift.
giles: i was going to say perhaps you could use some backup, but um... now you mention it, building up your strength may not be a bad idea.
scene direction: buffy to xander
buffy: just get the blaster working. that's all the strength i need.
willow: are you sure?
buffy: why? because ray guns aren't in the slayer handbook? well, you haven't seen this adam thing. he's the terminator without the bashful charm. he's deadly, and the last time we met, he kicked my ass.
willow: oh no, blast away, by all means. i only meant...no word about riley?
scene direction: willow comes and sits with buffy.
scene direction: buffy sits back, crossing her arms
buffy: they keep telling me that he's fine. that's all they'll say.
willow: maybe they're telling the truth?
scene direction: buffy worried
buffy: maybe. i don't even know what the initiative's version of fine is. they could be forcing him back onto medication and torturing him, for all i know.
giles: from what we've seen, i doubt they'll be trying to hurt him.
buffy: the only thing i know for certain is that my boyfriend is locked away and i'm not helping.
scene direction: xander's back is to us. he's leaning over the blaster when it suddenly lets out a big spark. he does a short electrocuted dance as he holds it in his hands and a puff a smoke is rising from the gun.
scene direction: willow unaware of the blast
willow: maybe giles has a point? i mean, riley is their top gun guy. doesn't make sense that they'd hurt him.
scene direction: xander has let go of the blaster and turns to face the others with a wide-eyed expression on his face. he's wavering on his feet, still feeling the effects of the shock, and sees nobody noticed what happened. without a word he turns around and picks up the weapon again to continue working on it.
buffy: all i know is that the initiative has all those brain-washy, behaviour modification guys.
willow: so?
buffy: so what happens when they start not liking his behaviour?
scene change: cut to initiative infirmary. close up of buffy's red scarf lying on a counter. riley's reaches out to take it and closes his fist around it. his right hand is bandaged up. the camera pans and sees him lying on a bed. his abdomen is also heavily bandaged. he pushes himself to a sitting position, groaning and putting a hand against the wound in his side. after taking a couple of breaths he stands up, grabbing a shirt, and puts it on as he heads out.
scene direction: at the door leading into the infirmary there is a soldier standing guard. at riley's approach he turns around a stands in front of the doorway.
riley: stand down, soldier.
scene direction: riley starts buttoning up his shirt and a second later realizes that the guard hasn't moved.
scene direction: riley conversationally
riley: stand down before i put you down.
scene direction: the soldier still doesn't move and forrest walks up.
scene direction: forrest to soldier
forrest: you heard the man. at ease.
scene direction: the soldier returns to his original position. with a glance at forrest, riley steps out of the doorway and starts walking down the corridor with a noticeable limp. he continues to button his shirt.
scene direction: forrest falls into step with him.
forrest: the shish kebab that walks like a man. looks like you're feeling better, walking around, threatening people, and all that.
riley: man was in my way. i got places to be.
forrest: really? and where were you thinking of going?
riley: you know where i'm going.
scene direction: forrest exasperated sigh
forrest: don't even tell me you're heading toward that girlfriend of yours.
scene direction: forrest steps out in front of him
forrest: look at you. one good conjugal visit and you're back in intensive care to stay.
riley: you wouldn't understand.
scene direction: forrest crossing his arms
forrest: how about you explain it to me, then?
scene direction: graham walks up from behind riley.
graham: we all friends here, fellas?
scene direction: forrest looking at riley
forrest: absolutely. riley here is about to explain why he's leaving us so very quickly.
riley: i don't explain. because i don't have to. i'm the one in charge.
forrest: things change.
riley: do they?
forrest: hey! in case you failed to notice, we're in a world of hurt around here. now's the time for us to band together. not go flying off our separate ways.
graham: forrest has a point, riley.
forrest: we have a problem, we deal with that problem. you know the most important part of the equation now is that we keep said problem within the family.
riley: family? is that what we are? step aside.
scene direction: forrest stares him down.
scene change: cut to faith's room. an overhead closing shot of her lying in the bed. it alternates with another shot of a cloudy sky, as thunder cracks, threatening rain. the sun can be seen trying to shine through. camera pans down to a tree line of a spacious park. close up of faith. her pupils are moving under her closed eyelids.
faith vo: think it's gonna rain?
scene change: cut to faith, in the park, laying on a picnic blanket, barefoot. she is wearing a light blue shirt and a bright pink skirt. mayor richard wilkins is laying on the other side of the blanket, eating a sandwich. faith is just picking at the grapes on her own plate.
mayor: nonsense. it's a beautiful day. now eat your sandwich.
scene direction: mayor wipes his mouth with a napkin
faith: i dunno. it just always seems like it starts raining about now.
mayor: you're too young and too pretty a girl to start wearing worry lines on your face.
scene direction: mayor sits up as he sees something.
mayor: well, hey, hey hey.
scene direction: mayor picks up a small grass snake that was slithering across the blanket.
scene direction: faith frowns as she sees it.
wilkins: hey there, little fella. heh. i don't know where you belong, but it's not here with us.
scene direction: wilkins chuckles as he sets it down pointing towards the grass
wilkins: there you go.
scene direction: wilkins to faith
wilkins: you see? there's nothing that's gonna spoil our time together. who wants cheesecake?
scene direction: wilkins light laugh
scene direction: faith smiles as he turns to open the picnic basket. horror suddenly fills her expression.
faith: no!
faith: no!
scene direction: buffy is suddenly standing in front of the mayor. she's in black clothes and a long dark coat. she has faith's knife in her hand and swings the blade down across his throat, and he gags. before he can fall she thrusts the knife into his chest. she pulls it out and lets him fall and her emotionless gaze fixes on faith.
buffy: i told you i had things to do.
scene direction: faith is terrified and starts backing away. in a panic, she turns and flees on her hands and knees. buffy is holding the blood-covered knife raised at the elbow and calmly stalks after her.
scene change: cut to faith lying in bed again. zoom in further.
scene change: cut to the woods. nighttime. buffy, willow, and xander are on patrol, each carrying a flashlight.
willow: spread out?
buffy: not too far.
xander: so not a problem.
scene direction: willow and xander split from buffy as they reach a clump of bushes.
scene direction: the camera pulls back and tracks buffy's progress. behind her are two trees and a pair of red legs, with clawed feet, tied to them.
scene direction: willow and xander's flashlights are visible on the other side of the trees. buffy hears a crackling sound a turns. her eyes widen as she looks up. willow and xander are already gaping at the sight of the crucified demon suspended high between the two trees.
scene direction: buffy shines her light on the body and sees the demon was eviscerated. it was sliced down the middle from its neck to lower abdomen, its flesh pulled open wide and also tied to the trees. all the internal organs have been removed and the ribcage and spine are clearly visible.
scene change: cut to xander's basement.
buffy: i've never seen anything like that.
xander: and i can go a long healthy stretch without seeing anything like that again.
willow: it had to be adam who killed it, but why?
buffy: he's studying biology. human, demon, whoever he can get his hands on and take apart.
willow: he's finding out what makes things work.
xander: i really don't want to be around for the final exam.
buffy: it's not coming to that. the initiative created this thing and they can't stop it. but we will.
xander: question - will hiding in a cavern with stockpiled chocolate goods be any part of this plan?
buffy: no.
scene direction: xander sits next to willow.
scene direction: xander to willow
xander: told you.
willow: what's first?
buffy: riley. i'm not leaving him down there with the people that created this thing. i don't care how many guns they have, i'm going in. okay. will, i need you to hack into their security mainframe and buy me a ten minute shut down of operation systems.
willow: that could be...
buffy: tricky. not impossible. if you can't do it online, then use magic. xander, any gear you've been saving for a rainy day, i want you to give to me.
xander: you want stealth stuff?
buffy: no, we tried sneaking in. this time, we're gonna use force. i figure i'll go in through the elevator shaft, use the cable as towlines. then blast open the facility doors and find the infirmary.
riley: am i really worth all that?
scene direction: buffy spins around
buffy: riley!
scene direction: buffy hugs him. he flinches
buffy: oh god, i'm sorry! did i hurt you?
riley: no, a giant skewer through the rib cage hurt me. that was just a reminder.
buffy: how did you get out?
riley: i walked.
willow: they didn't try to stop you?
riley: oh, they did. repeatedly. but then i told them they couldn't keep me without a major ass-kicking, one way or another. so here i am.
xander: that's...great...riley, and y'know...there's no polite way to ask you this, but...uh...did they put a chip in your brain?
scene direction: xander looks at his head
riley: beg your pardon?
buffy: forget it. we're just happy to have you back.
willow: yeah, we were pretty worried about you for a while, mister.
riley: me too. hey, i know my behaviour was pretty out there...
willow: forget it. tell you what, you two crazy kids take down a killer cyber demon hybrid thingy and we'll call it all even.
riley: taking down adam's gonna be tough. there's no way to predict what he'll throw at us.
buffy: you're here. whatever comes, we can handle.
scene change: cut to dark street.
scene direction: faith running down it looking very afraid. buffy walking after her.
scene direction: faith runs through a graveyard.
scene direction: cut back to faith asleep in hospital.
scene change: cut to graveyard. noises all around faith. buffy getting closer wielding faith's knife.
scene change: cut to faith asleep, zoom closer to her face.
scene change: cut to buffy still walking after faith, then to her asleep, then to faith running through the graveyard and falling into an open grave. buffy comes up to it and looks down at her. buffy falls away and the screen fades the black. shot of the ground near the grave, then faith claws her way out of the hole and looks up into the stormy sky.
scene direction: cut back to hospital bed. faith's eyes snap open.
scene change: fade to commercial break.
scene direction: faith lying awake listening to hospital noises. looks at monitors, then at tube in her hand. lifts hand up and clenches it into a fight fist.
scene direction: far shot of bed. faith throws the covers aside, rips out the monitor cable and leaves. she is pulled back by tube in her hand.
scene direction: faith yanks it out
faith: ouch.
scene direction: faith walks down the corridor. woman comes up to her.
woman: excuse me. you know how to get to third floor west?
faith: what?
woman: i see...you need some help or something?
faith: graduation.
woman: what?
faith: graduation. i gotta get to sunnydale high school graduation now.
woman: well, you can't. i mean, sunnydale high school isn't even there anymore.
faith: what day is it?
woman: friday.
faith: what date? the date.
woman: february 25th.
faith: what year?
woman: maybe i should get you a nurse...
faith: what happened to the school?
woman: don't you just wanna...
faith: just tell me.
woman: well, it was a tragedy really. lots of students died. the principal, the mayor. i really think maybe i should get you some help.
scene direction: closeup of faith's face.
scene change: cut to faith walking outside the hospital wearing the woman's clothes.
buffy vo: y'know, i never stopped thinking about you.
scene change: cut to buffy and riley.
riley: me neither. all i had in there was this one little part of you.
scene direction: riley gives her bandana piece
buffy: it's just the scarf part of me really.
riley: sure it is. just knowing you were out there...that you cared...i think we're being watched.
buffy: i dunno. does the initiative do that?
riley: maybe.
buffy: you seem a little...somewhere else. is there anything i can do?
riley: give me an order. that's what i do isn't it? follow orders.
buffy: you don't have to.
riley: don't i? all my life that's what i've been groomed to do. they say jump, i ask "how high?", i get the job done. just don't know if it's the right job anymore.
buffy: i know how you feel. giles used to be part of this council. and for years all they ever did was give me orders.
riley: ever obey them?
buffy: sure. the ones i was going to do anyway. the point is, i quit the council. and i was scared. but it's okay now.
riley: now, see, that's where you and i are different. i just suck at the whole gray area thing.
buffy: it's a choice. go back in there and make some changes from the inside. or you can quit the team, fight demons in your own way.
riley: you make it sound so simple. i don't even know what my way is.
buffy: well, it's time to find out.
riley: i'm a soldier. i got a way, which one of them?
buffy: good man.
scene direction: buffy and riley kiss. she sits in his lap, kisses him again
riley: what're you doing?
buffy: i am looking for brain washy chips in your head.
riley: heh...finding any?
buffy: not sure. but i should probably keep looking just in case. you've been strong long enough, riley finn. i'm here for you. and we're gonna find this demon, and we're gonna kill it together. and in the meantime, you are gonna stop torturing yourself.
riley: sure about that?
buffy: it's an order.
scene direction: buffy they kiss again
scene change: cut to hospital. doctor talking to nurse. police officer watching.
doctor: what do you mean she just wasn't there?
nurse: i don't know. i came to check the monitors like i always do at eight o'clock. eight o'clock is my shift, i got here on time.
detective: you found the bed in this condition?
nurse: haven't touched a thing.
doctor: get the duty rosters and check the log. i wanna know exactly what happened. coma patients do not just get up and walk away.
nurse: we are checking every room on every floor.
detective: walk me through this one more time. you knew this woman was wanted for questioning on a series of murders and there's no security on this wing?
doctor: you don't understand. there's no way that girl was gonna wake up.
detective: doctor...
doctor: this can't be happening...
scene direction: nurse comes in.
nurse: did you find her?
nurse: another woman, unconscious and badly beaten. and she's been stripped.
scene direction: detective, doctor and nurse leave in a hurry. nurse goes to phone, dials a number.
scene direction: nurse into phone
nurse: it's happened. send the team.
scene change: cut to faith walking through streets, gets to window of giles' apartment.
scene direction: giles from inside
giles: the problem for me seems to be why adam ahs stayed dormant as long as he has.
willow: when he's not making performance art out of other demons, that is.
riley: he's probably working off an autonomic power source. and because he's straight out of the box, he needs to charge up a while.
scene direction: shot of faith at window.
buffy: okay, what's he charging up for?
xander: based on the clues, i'll go with killing spree.
riley: and that's a best case scenario. i suppose a little firepower would be a good idea right now.
scene direction: riley activates blaster xander had been messing with, much to xander's amazement
xander: hey! how'd you do that? is there like an on/off button somewhere here?
riley: blasters are easy. adam won't be.
willow: since professor walsh designed it, any chance she left instructions lying around somewhere?
scene direction: willow as she says this, buffy kisses riley and faith reacts
buffy: well, if she did, they're gonna be in the initiative.
scene direction: faith continues to stare at buffy and riley.
giles: which we can't get into without mounting a major offensive.
riley: speak for yourself.
scene direction: riley all look at him
riley: i'm just saying.
giles: i must admit, a man on the inside would be...
buffy: a really good idea. are you sure you wanna be double agent guy?
riley: i'm not exactly sure what you'd call me, but i will share information.
scene direction: faith is still looking at riley.
riley: it's the least i can do.
xander: riley's right. it is the least we can do.
scene direction: phone rings. giles answers it.
giles: hello. what? yes, she is.
scene direction: giles motions to buffy
giles: um...it's for you.
scene direction: buffy looking surprised
buffy: hello?
scene direction: faith watches her expectantly.
buffy: what sort of emergency?
scene direction: buffy looks unhappy
buffy: no, i haven't.
scene direction: faith leaves.
buffy: thank you, i'll let you know.
scene direction: buffy puts phone down
giles: what is it?
buffy: it's faith. she's awake.
scene direction: buffy all look surprised
buffy: she beat someone up, took her clothing and disappeared out of the hospital. no one knows where she is.
xander: i'd say this qualifies for a "worst timing ever" award.
willow: what do we do?
giles: well, we have to find her.
willow: what about adam?
xander: i'd hate to see the pursuit of a homicidal lunatic get in the way of pursuing a homicidal lunatic.
buffy: well, faith's not exactly low-profile girl. i'll patrol and wait for her to make a move.
giles: but then what?
willow: oooh! i have an idea! beat the crap out of her!
xander: good plan.
buffy: good on paper. but we still have a decision to make. do we hand her over to the cops? they wouldn't know what to do with a slayer even if they knew we existed.
willow: what about the council?
xander: been there. tried that. not unlike smothering a forest fire with napalm as i recall.
giles: well, the initiative, they do have containment facilities.
xander: one word: evil.
buffy: there's no way around it. faith is back, and whether i like it or not, she's my responsibility.
willow: yeah, too bad. that was out first coma ever.
buffy: we have no idea where she is. we don't know what she's thinking, what she's feeling...
xander: who she's doing.
buffy: she could be terrified. maybe she doesn't even remember. or maybe she does and she's sorry and she's alone hiding somewhere.
giles: well, perhaps there's some form of rehabilitation we just haven't thought about.
willow: and if not, ass-kicking makes a solid plan b.
buffy: i'm not going to rule it out. first thing, we need to find her. then we can take it from there.
riley: who's faith?
scene change: cut to university campus the next day. buffy and willow walking along.
willow: what did you tell him?
buffy: the truth? that she's my wacky identical cousin from england, and whenever she visits hi-jinks ensue?
willow: it's good you guys have such an honest relationship.
buffy: no, i told him the story. i vagued up a few bits, but no flat-out lies.
willow: that's fair. how'd you handle the angel-y parts?
buffy: i did some editing. it's not that i'm trying to hide anything from riley, it's just that's a longer conversation, and i had a faith-hunt to do.
willow: any luck?
buffy: couldn't find her. don't know exactly where to place that little up-continuum.
willow: at least you're not alone on this. i bet every cop in sunnydale is out there looking for her right now.
buffy: pressure's definitely on. i'm telling you, if i were her, i'd get outta dodge post hasty.
scene direction: faith turns from looking at the noticeboard.
faith: but you're not me.
scene change: fade to break.
faith: so, check you out b. nice, the big girl on campus thing's really working for you.
buffy: i've been looking for you.
faith: i've been standing still for eight months, b. how hard did you look?
buffy: are you alright?
faith: five-by-five. it's that thing about a coma. wake up all rested and rejuvenated. and ready for payback.
buffy: so much for pleasantries, huh?
faith: what did you think, i'd wake up and we'd go for tea? you tried to gut me, bonny.
scene direction: buffy; you'd have done the same to me if you'd had the chance.
faith: lets have another go at it. see who ends on top.
buffy: it doesn't have to be like this, y'know.
faith: actually, i think it has to be exactly like this.
buffy: faith, these are innocent people.
faith: no such animal.
buffy: i guess it was too much to hope that you'd use your downtime to reflect and grow.
faith: i could say the same about you. i mean, you're still the same better-than-thou buffy. i mean, i knew it somehow. i kept having this dream, i'm not sure what it means, but in the dream the self-righteous blond chick stabs me, and you wanna know why?
scene direction: shot of willow taking her backpack off her shoulders.
buffy: you had it coming.
faith: that's one interpretation, but in my dream, she does it for a guy.
scene direction: willow comes towards faith from behind her, wielding the bag.
scene direction: faith to willow
faith: try it red, and you'll lose an arm.
scene direction: faith back to buffy
faith: i wake up to find the blond chick isn't even dating the guy she was so nuts about before. i mean, she's moved on to the first college beefstick she meets. not only has she forgotten about the love of her life, but she's forgotten about the chick she nearly killed for him. so that's my dream. that and some stuff about cigars and a tunnel. but tell me, college girl, what does it mean?
buffy: to me? mostly, that you still mouth off about things you don't understand.
scene direction: buffy hears sirens
buffy: uh-oh. i guess somebody knows you're here.
scene direction: faith punches buffy around the face. they fight as the police approach. willow attacks faith from behind, she turns and is grabbed by buffy. she breaks free.
faith: you took my life, b. payback's a bitch.
willow: look who's talking.
faith: see you around.
scene direction: faith runs off, throws a police officer aside, runs over their car and runs over a field pushing people aside with buffy in pursuit. faith leaps over a wall. buffy looks over it to find faith has disappeared.
scene change: cut to a staircase at university. willow and tara going down them.
willow: thanks for coming with. hunting for a psychopathic super-bitch is definitely in the above and beyond category.
tara: it's okay, really. so, what do we do if we find her?
willow: run, flee, maybe skedaddle. we're not here to engage. this is strictly recon.
scene direction: tara smiles.
willow: what?
tara: you said "recon". you're like "cool monster fighter"!
willow: well, technically, faith isn't a monster. and as far as fighting, i'd be lucky to bruise her fist with my face.
tara: oh.
willow: what?
tara: face-punching, i'm not so good with the whole...
scene direction: tara imitates throwing punches rather badly
willow: swimming?
tara: violence.
willow: don't worry, we're sure to spot faith first. she's like this cleavagy slut-bomb walking around "ooh, check me out, i'm wicked-cool, i'm five-by-five".
tara: five-by-five? five what by five what?
willow: see, that's the thing. no-one knows. buffy can handle faith and you're plenty safe with me.
tara: so, um...we recon till nightfall?
willow: then the ritual hiding begins.
scene change: cut to xander and giles in the streets looking for faith.
xander: the point being i could be the target here. faith finds mr. xander harris still in town, she goes tighter than cat gut. got a lotta pent-up feelings there. i'm only saying.
scene direction: giles wearily
giles: yes, i'm sure.
xander: see, i can't be held responsible for the effect i have on women.
giles: no...
xander: see, faith and i have this little thing between us called history...
scene direction: rattling. they look around. xander charges the blaster. they go towards the sound. spike comes out of the darkness.
xander: spike?
giles: what are you doing here?
spike: me? hey, i'm not the one out of place here.
xander: for your information, smarty, we've got a rogue slayer on our hands. real psycho-killer too.
spike: sounds serious.
giles: it is. what do you know?
spike: what do you need?
xander: her. dark hair. yay
scene direction: xander indicates
xander: tall, name of faith, criminally insane.
giles: have you seen her?
spike: is this bird after you?
xander: in a bad way, yeah.
spike: tell you what i'll do then. i'll head out, find this girl, tell her exactly where you are and then watch as she kills you.
scene direction: spike sees their looks of surprise and irritation
spike: can't any one of your damn little scooby club at least try to remember that i hate you all? just because i can't do the damage myself doesn't stop me from aiming a loose cannon your way. and here i thought the evening be dull.
xander: go ahead. you wouldn't even recognise her.
spike: dark hair, this tall
scene direction: spike indicates
spike:  name of faith, criminally insane. like this girl already.
scene direction: xander and giles watch him leave.
xander: we're dumb.
scene change: cut to another new woman watching police helicopters flying around. pan around. faith is walking around the streets. about to go into a shop selling blades. see a police car coming around the corner. she ducks into a corner. some kind of monster comes up to her.
monster: faith! your friend sent me. i got a little remembrance from him.
scene direction: she beats the monster up and takes the case from him. then another police car comes around the corner. she goes quickly up a ladder, dodging his searchlight. once up the ladder she opens the case.
mayor: hello faith. if you're watching this tape, it can only mean one thing. i'm dead. and our noble campaign to bring order to the town of sunnydale has failed. utterly and completely. but on the other hand, heck, maybe we won. and right now, i'm on some jumbo monitor in the richard wilkins surrounded by a bunch of kids sitting indian style and looking up at my face filled with fear and wonder.
scene direction: mayor laughs
mayor: "hi kids"!
scene direction: faith smiles.
mayor: but the realist in me tends to doubt it. now, faith, as i record this message you're sleeping. and the doctors tell me you might never wake up. i don't believe that. sooner or later you will wake up, and when you do, you'll find the world has gone and changed on you. i wish i could make the world a better place for you to wake up in. but, tough as it is to accept, we both have to understand that even my power to protect and watch over you has its limits. see, the hard pill to swallow is that once i'm gone, your days are just plain numbered. now, i know, you're a smart and capable young woman in charge of her own life, but the problem, faith, is that there won't be a place in the world for you anymore. by now i bet you're feeling very much alone. but you're never alone. you'll always have me.
scene direction: mayor picks up box
mayor: and you'll always have this. go ahead. open the box.
scene direction: mayor faith takes box from the case and looks at it
mayor: don't worry. it's not gonna bite. that's my job.
scene direction: mayor laughs
mayor: go ahead. open it.
scene direction: faith opens the box.
mayor: surprise! you won't find these in any gumball machine! see, when you've been around as long as i have, you amke friends. and some of them forge neat little gizmos. just like the one you're holding right now.
scene direction: faith looks at it.
mayor: and here's the good news. just because it's over for my faith, doesn't mean she can't go out with a bang.
scene direction: mayor looks down and laughs sadly. faith looks sadly at the device
buffy vo: she's a very dangerous woman.
scene change: cut to buffy's dorm. buffy and riley talking.
riley: okay, i get it. faith bad. do i look like i'm arguing?
buffy: not yet. but you always make that innocent face right before you start.
riley: figured it out, huh? damn. it took my mom twelve years to catch that one. all i'm saying is, if you're in trouble, i wanna help.
buffy: you can't.
riley: give me one reason why.
scene direction: she throws him a ball. he barely catches it and flinches in pain.
buffy: that's one.
riley: alright, i'm not exactly action guy, but there's gotta be something i can do other than sit around waiting for you to pummel this gal.
buffy: riley, the fact that you just called faith a "gal" only proves that you don't know her.
riley: never seen anyone get under your skin this way before. what exactly did she do to you?
buffy: it's a long story.
riley: i'm from iowa. we drive four hours for our high school football game. try me.
buffy: i told you, okay? she hurt me and people i care about. and did i mention the psycho killer part?
riley: there's something you're not telling me.
buffy: riley, i have to go. she's out there.
riley: alright. i'm just saying. i think you're holding out on me.
buffy: riley, this isn't a joke. there's a criminally insane woman out there with super-powers who thinks i'm responsible for ruining her life. i know faith. she'll come after me and she'll come after the people i love.
scene change: cut to joyce summers' house. knock on the door. joyce goes to answer it. it's faith.
faith: hi joyce.
scene direction: she pushes joyce down, comes in and shuts the door.
faith: mind if i come in.
scene change: fade to commercial break.
scene direction: faith going through joyce's makeup drawer.
faith: ruby sunset...burgendy skyline...harlot. mmmmmmm, way to go joyce. now, normally i wouldn't be going for something this dark. but i read in some magazine that eight months in a coma will damage a girl's natural skin tone.
scene direction: faith puts on lipstick
faith: good thing pale is in this year.n or was it last year?
scene direction: faith finishes, kisses mirror
faith: anyway, for real now. i wanna ask you something, and i want you to promise to be honest, and to not spare my feelings just because i could kill you. you promise?
joyce: i promise.
faith: ok.
scene direction: faith finishes with hair
faith: how do i look?
scene direction: faith poses
joyce: psychotic.
faith: mmmmmmm. i was shooting for sultry, but hey. bet i know what you're thinking.
joyce: really.
faith: you're thinking "you'll never get away with this!" moi?
joyce: actually i was thinking "my daughter is going to kill you soon".
faith: that a fact?
joyce: more like a bet.
faith: whoa. you got a pair on you, joyce, i like seeing that in a woman your age. guess you can afford to talk that way. i mean, in the world according to joyce, buffy is gonna come crashing through that door any minute. but, look what i found.
scene direction: faith goes over and picks up some letters, comes over to joyce. reads addresses
faith: buffy summers, buffy summers, buffy summers, buffy, buffy, buffy. lotta letters. she hasn't been by in a while, huh? and you'd think, with a crazy chick like me on the loose, crazy chick with a wicked grudge against her no less, she'd call, give you a heads-up. but buffy's too into her own deal to remember dear old mom.
joyce: you don't know the first thing about buffy. or me.
faith: don't i? i know what it's like. you think you matter, you think you're a part of something and you get dumped. it's like the whole world is moving and you're stuck. it's like those animals in the tar pits. it's like you just keep sinking a little deeper everyday and no-one even sees.
joyce: were you planning to slit my throat any time soon?
faith: don't tell me you don't see it joyce. you've served you purpose, squirted out the kids, raised her up, and now you might as well be dead. nobody cares, nobody remembers, especially not buffy fabulous superhero. sooner or later you're going to have to face it. she was over us a long time ago joyce. too busy climbing onto her new boy-toy to give a single though to the people that matter. i mean, you're her mother, and she just leaves you hear to die.
scene direction: faith grabs knife
scene direction: buffy crashes in through the window and punches faith.
buffy: hi mom.
joyce: hi honey.
scene direction: the fight continues. as the slayers fall downstairs, joyce calls 911.
scene direction: they roll down the stairs and clamber to their feet.
faith: thought i'd go after the queen marine didn't ya? he's a cutie. looks like he could use a good roll in the sack.
scene direction: buffy attacks faith and knocks her down.
buffy: you're not his type. he's not big on sleaze.
scene direction: they fight and faith gets buffy against a wall by the neck.
faith: he's probably just never tried it.
buffy: going for the boyfriend again? that's tired.
faith: just something to remember me by once i've moved on.
scene direction: they fight and faith is thrown across the table.
buffy: ever occur to you, faith, that the reason we forgot you is because we wanted to?
scene direction: faith smashes stuff and throws it at her.
scene change: cut to giles entering his apartment. finds some guy waiting for him.
guy: hello rupert.
scene direction: giles looks shocked. guy looks calm.
scene direction: cut back to fight. faith attacks buffy, then hears the police and tries to run.
scene direction: buffy blocks her and punches her around. faith opens the mayor's device and blocks one of her punches with it. small energy discharge. when it stops, both buffy and faith look shocked. then faith [buffy] punches buffy [faith] out. joyce comes to her.
joyce: you okay?
faith [buffy]: all things considered.
scene direction: joyce sees mayor's device
joyce: what is that?
faith [buffy]: weapon of some kind.
scene direction: faith [buffy] crushes it underfoot
faith [buffy]: didn't work, whatever it was.
scene direction: police come.
joyce: oh, the police.
scene direction: faith [buffy] looks at faith.
faith [buffy]: she's their problem now.
joyce: you sure you're okay?
faith [buffy]: five-by-five.
scene direction: lingering shot of buffy's face.
scene direction: screen reads to be continued.
