scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: fade in on a close up of willow. she has her eyes closed and is chanting calmly.
willow: i implore you, neisa, blessed goddess of chance and fortune, heed my call. send to me the heart i desire. the camera is pulling back slowly and we see she is holding five cards.
xander: you know, magic at the poker table qualifies as cheating.
scene direction: in xander's basement. willow is sitting on xander's folded-up sofa bed and anya and xander are sitting on large bean bags around the coffee table. they have sodas and bowls of potato chips and pretzels to snack on.
willow: that wasn't magic. i was praying. two please.
scene direction: he deals her two cards.
anya: five xander: ahn, i keep telling you: four's the max and only if you have an ace.
anya: okay, four.
xander: let's see the ace.
scene direction: anya sighs
anya: three.
scene direction: anya gives up the cards
anya: what a stupid game. all these rules just to win little plastic disks.
xander: chips. they're called chips. they represent money. since none of us has any money it represents money. but that's gonna change once my merchandise hits the street.
scene direction: he looks at them invitingly. willow takes the cue.
scene direction: willow munching on a pretzel
willow: hmm! wha'cha got in the boxes, drugs?
scene direction: willow then sternly
willow: it's not drugs, is it, xander?
xander: not drugs.
scene direction: he gets up and goes to the work bench and grabs one of the boxes.
xander: you are looking at the new local distributor for boost bars. 'the natural food bar that provides a nutritional energy boost for active, health-conscience people.'
scene direction: xander sits
xander: want one?
willow: no. thanks. those things usually taste . . kind of tasteless. and then leave a bad after-tastelessness.
scene direction: xander taking out a bar
xander: well, don't let the healthy scare you. check out these ingredients.
scene direction: xander pointing at label
xander: see? loaded with fatty goodness.
anya: come on, somebody bet already. i got three 'k' cards.
scene direction: willow and xander look at her then exchange a glance. they fold their cards. anya smiles happily and begins sliding the pot of chips to her already large pile. xander starts to gather the cards up to shuffle.
xander: wish the buff could've made it. this three-hand poker is not quite the game.
willow: guess she's out with riley. you know how it is with a spanking new boyfriend.
scene direction: anya offhandedly while stacking her chips
anya: yes, we've enjoyed spanking.
scene direction: reacting in shock, the cards explode from xander's hands. gaping, he's about to say something to anya, but doesn't seem able to talk.
xander: well. . 
scene direction: xander coughs
xander: the thing is . . . i think riley is . . . okay, in an oafish kind of way. but . . . am i the only one with a big floating question mark over his head about this initiative thing?
willow: well, they do seem to fall into the 'good guy' camp. i mean they are anti-demon.
scene direction: willow sees anya's evil eye expression
willow: probably pro ex-demon.
anya: maybe. i choose to feel threatened.
scene direction: xander gathering cards again
xander: and why not? there's still heaps we don't know about these commandos. what exactly are they up to?
scene change: cut to somewhere in the woods. night time. a few of the initiative commandos prowling through the trees and bushes in low crouches. they're all wearing their dark ski masks and armed with taser rifles. the lead commando silently motions them forward and three of them disappear into a tall stretch of bushes.
scene change: cut to long shot and we start to hear fighting and a second later one of the commandos comes flying out of the bushes landing at least ten yards away. closer shot - buffy jumps out of the bushes and there's already two more commandos down and out on the ground around her. a fourth and fifth commando charge her from either side.
scene direction: buffy greets the fourth commando with quick alternating front kicks that the commando blocks but the impact sends him off balance. buffy spins into a roundhouse kick into the face of the fifth commando as he comes up behind her. he recovers quickly and swings a punch that she ducks and sends him down with a right hook. then she turns to the fourth commando who's up again. she fakes him with a high backhand that he blocks, then brings that fist down to hammer punch him in the groin, making him hunch around his pain. but her attention is already on the fifth commando and she blocks a mid-level uppercut, catching it and has him in an arm lock. she sends a back kick into the fourth commando's chest sending him to the ground.
scene direction: buffy swings her captured commando around just as the lead commando pops out of some bushes with his taser rifle and fires. the blast hits the helpless commando and he spasms as rings of electricity course through his body. buffy lets him drop to the ground and readies herself as the lead commando charges her. they are about to fight when--.
scene direction: walsh os
walsh: lights! the brights of a humvee parked up on a gradual hill illuminates the area and buffy and the lead commando turn to see professor maggie walsh, in a dark wool coat, hurrying down to them. she walks past the lead commando, who his pulling off his mask and we see it's riley finn. walsh stands in front of buffy and regards her with a stoic expression.
walsh: it took the patrol team 42 minutes to track you and you neutralized them in 28 seconds.
scene direction: buffy glances at riley behind walsh
buffy: i was just lucky.
walsh: i see.
scene direction: walsh riley starts to smile
walsh: well . . . still. very impressive.
scene direction: walsh turns and riley quickly wipes the smile off his face. she heads back to the humvee. buffy watches her leave as riley steps up to her.
buffy: i was just being modest with the whole 'lucky' thing. you got that, right?
scene direction: again, riley has a 'shine a flashlight on his teeth and blind yourself' smile on his face as he looks down at her.
riley: i got it.
scene direction: the rest of the commandos are getting to their feet and taking their masks off. graham miller passes buffy on her right.
graham: awesome, buffy.
scene direction: forrest gates walks past her on her left, without saying a word, looking a little pissed. he has a hand on his back and stops for a moment to look over his shoulder.
forrest: pfft!
scene direction: forrest continues on
scene direction: riley still smiling
riley: see? you're a hit. everybody loves you.
scene change: he puts an arm around her shoulders and they follow the others. cut to walsh standing beside the humvee, looking on. she doesn't look happy.
scene direction: wolf's howl. buffy theme and opening credits roll.
scene change: *** part one ***
scene change: fade in on exterior of uc sunnydale. daytime. cut to rocket cafe.
scene direction: panning shot to willow and buffy sitting at a table across from each other drinking coffee. buffy sounds excited as she tells willow about last night. for her part, willow has a happy 'listening even though she really doesn't want to hear this' look on her face.
buffy: so then professor walsh said that i was just as amazing as riley had said. and later, he told me that she couldn't stop talking about this move i made where i used one of the commandos as a shield to block a taser blast. it was like twelve-thousand volts. it took the guy almost two hours to recover.
scene direction: buffy takes a sip of her coffee
scene direction: willow politely
willow: huh.
buffy: hmm. how was your night?
willow: like a normal person's. light on the action-pack. hope tonight's not too much of a let-down for you. excitement-wise.
scene direction: willow a pause
willow: you do remember about tonight, right?
buffy: bronze. the gang. are you kidding? i wouldn't be anywhere else. i miss you guys. we haven't been able to spend that much time together lately.
willow: you've been busy. fighting armies and stuff. not to mention other distractions from a romantic--.
scene direction: willow sees that buffy's no longer paying attention
buffy: riley just walked in. willow looks over her shoulder and we see riley at the lunch counter perusing the fruit bowl.
willow: do ya want to let him know you're here?
buffy: no. just enjoying a good stare.
scene direction: buffy eyes still on riley
buffy: tell me about your night.
willow: well, spent most of it at xander's teaching anya to play poker.
scene direction: buffy still riley-eyed
buffy: that sounds like fun.
willow: yeah. except the anya part and the poker part.
buffy: will, i think you better get used to-- a twinkie!?
scene direction: quick shot of riley going to pay for his junk food.
buffy: that's his lunch? oh, he is *so* gonna be punished.
scene direction: willow pouty
willow: everyone's getting spanked but me.
buffy: what?
willow: uh, nothing.
scene direction: willow smiles but it doesn't reach her eyes.
scene change: cut to a cemetery. daytime. all is quiet. cut to interior of spacious mausoleum. the door opens and rupert giles steps inside.
scene direction: laying on top of a stone sarcophagus, spike raises his head at the sound. he throws off the ratty blanket that was covering him.
spike: hey! wipe your feet when you enter a person's home.
scene direction: giles closing the door
giles: oh, yes. careless of me. tracking mud all over your, uh . . . mud.
scene direction: spike is walking towards him.
scene direction: spike looking around
spike: i admit, it's a bit of a fixer-upper. needs a woman's touch.
scene direction: spike looks at giles
spike: care to have a crack at it?
giles: while i'd loved to go on trading jabs with you, spike, perhaps i'll come to the point. as much as it pains me to say it, um, i owe you a debt of gratitude for the help you provided me in my recent . . . metamorphosis.
scene direction: spike rubbing a crick out of his neck
spike: stuff the gratitude. you owe me more than that, mate.
scene direction: giles pulls out a small bundle of dollar bills and offers it to him.
giles: three-hundred. count it if you'd
scene direction: giles spike snatches it out of his hand
giles:  . . like.
spike: i'll do that.
scene direction: while spike starts counting the money, giles looks the place over.
giles: um, thinking about your affliction and, uh, your newfound discovery that you can fight only demons; it occurs to me that
scene direction: giles chuckling
giles: i realize this is completely against your nature but i-i-i-- has it occurred to you that there may be a higher purpose--.
spike: ugh! you made me lose count.
scene direction: spike faces him
spike: what are you still doing here?
giles: talking to myself, apparently.
spike: well piss off, then.
scene direction: spike indicates the money in his hands
spike: this bit of business wraps up any i got with you and your slayerettes. from here on i want nothing to do with the lot of you.
giles: your choosing to remain in sunnydale might make that a little difficult.
spike: well you and yours will just have to show a little restraint is all. get out.
scene direction: giles doesn't say anything and heads for the door.
scene direction: spike following
spike: and i don't want you crawling back here knocking on my door pleading for help the second teen witch's magic goes all wonky or little xander cuts a new tooth. we're through. you got it?
scene direction: giles opens the door and spike flinches away from the brightness. he looks over his shoulder at the vampire and his eye twitches. his feelings might be a little hurt.
scene direction: spike callously
spike: honeymoon is over.
scene direction: giles leaves without a word.
scene change: cut to close up shot of buffy. she looking up into riley's eyes.
scene direction: they are in very intimate proximity to each other.
scene direction: riley softly
riley: you don't have to do this.
buffy: i know.
riley: i mean, if you'd rather wait . . .
scene direction: buffy meaningfully
buffy: i'm ready. i want to.
scene direction: riley smiles down at her. the camera pulls back as they turn and step in front of a floor-to-ceiling mirror in the wall. they are in the center hallway in lowell house. riley opens a tiny hidden panel beside the mirror and pushes a button. buffy just stands there as a horizontal green line comes from the mirror and slides down over her body.
female computer voice: new retinal scan recorded. summers. buffy.
scene direction: the mirror slides to one side to reveal the very white interior of an elevator. riley steps inside first.
scene change: cut to close-up shot of a black and white surveillance monitor displaying a picture from inside the elevator as we see buffy follow riley in.
scene change: cut back to buffy and riley. buffy turns and watches the elevator door close again. cut to initiative headquarters. the elevator door opens and riley is holding buffy's hand as he leads her out onto a catwalk overlooking the main chamber.
scene direction: buffy eyes wide
buffy: my god.
scene direction: slow panning shot of the jumbo hangar size complex. in the middle of the floor is a lower section where men and women in surgical scrubs and white lab coats or performing tests and operations on several types of demons, strapped to strange looking tables and chairs.
buffy: you said it was big. you told me, but you never said it was *huuuge*!
scene direction: riley offhanded
riley: i don't like to brag.
scene direction: buffy looks at him and a grin breaks his face.
scene direction: buffy looking down again
buffy: i had no idea. this is incredible. but not that i thought it was some fly-by-night operation.
scene direction: buffy turns to him, excited
buffy: unless it is! i mean, can you guys fly? at night. with those jet-pack things, do you have those?
scene direction: riley playing coy
riley: i can't really talk about it.
buffy: this is unreal.
scene direction: they look into each other's eyes and riley leans down, about to kiss her . . .
walsh: so, you like our little operation?
scene direction: they turn to see walsh standing behind them on the catwalk.
buffy: yeah. yes. it's very . . . clean.
scene direction: walsh approaches and hands her a small plastic clip-on badge.
walsh: your visitor's pass.
scene direction: walsh takes a few papers from her clipboard
walsh: and i've assembled some reading material to bring you up to speed.
scene direction: buffy clips the pass to her leather jacket and takes the papers walsh offers her.
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: oh. and i thought i was never gonna get homework from you again.
walsh: you can't take that home. that's classified material. highly sensitive. when you're through reading those pages you'll have to eat them.
scene direction: buffy just stares at her, speechless. she looks up at riley.
scene direction: riley grinning
riley: she's joking.
walsh: don't worry, it doesn't happen very often. shall we?
scene direction: buffy exchanges another glance with riley and they follow.
scene direction: moments later, they've made their way down the metal staircase and walsh is leading them towards the open center of the complex. they stop at the metal railing and look down.
walsh: much of our hands-on research with the shts is performed here. we call this 'the pit.' buffy sees a pair of green squid-faced demons laying on two tables, while scrub-clad techs work on them.
buffy: and what do you call those?
riley: tough. it took eight of us to bring those two down.
walsh: they'll be under our control soon enough.
scene direction: walsh calling down
walsh: doctor angleman!
scene change: cut to a man in a white lab coat talking with another person. he looks up to acknowledge walsh then returns to his conversation.
scene direction: walsh to buffy
walsh: head of our science team. he's a leader in the field of xenomorphic behavior modification.
buffy: behavior modification?
walsh: we've made significant advances in reconditioning the sub-terrestrials. bringing them to a point where they no longer pose a threat.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: so i've seen.
scene direction: then she sees walsh and riley's expressions as they look at her.
buffy: . . . on the discovery channel. with gorillas and sharks. they-they made them all nice. you haven't seen it?
scene direction: they don't say anything but walsh doesn't look convinced. buffy turns her attention away and points across the complex.
buffy: what's over there?
scene direction: she starts to walk casually in that direction and riley and walsh follow. seconds later, walsh is in the lead again as they approach an area closed off by a chain-link fence. inside are large caches of guns and equipment of all types. there is one commando on duty inside.
walsh: the armory. you'll have to be cleared for use on each of these weapons. but by this point buffy must have felt like she was back in class for her attention has already wandered and she steps up to a table behind walsh and riley. she sees a small looking device laying in an open case. as she lifts it up, the image on the monitor behind her also moves and we see a close-up of buffy's eye as she holds the device close to her face.
scene direction: walsh while this is happening
walsh: the more advance arsenal can be complicated, but i'm certain, in time, you'll pick that up.
scene direction: walsh looks over her shoulder and sees what buffy's doing
walsh: don't pick that up.
scene direction: walsh walks to her and quickly takes it from her.
buffy: what is it?
walsh: about twenty-thousand dollars.
riley: it's a prototype for a com-cam.
scene direction: riley points to the monitor behind her
riley: communications camera. soon to be standard issue. gives us a direct comlink to control when we're out in the field.
walsh: also monitors the heart rate of the wearer. a valuable tool for research in stress in combat condition. if you'll follow me, i'll show you the sht containment area.
scene direction: walsh walks off and buffy looks to riley mouthing 'sorry.' riley shakes his head with a smile, telling her not to worry as they follow.
scene direction: some time later, the tour is coming to an end. walsh stops to face buffy.
walsh: we have a few more things to give you.
scene direction: buffy pointing
buffy: what's in there? quick shot of the metal security door we saw in the last episode. a lab coat scientist uses a id card to open the door and disappears inside.
walsh: research area. very restricted for security reasons. here is your security card and your pager.
scene direction: she accepts the items from walsh and studies the pager.
buffy: been thinking about getting one of these.
walsh: we're the only ones with the number and it stays that way.
buffy: right.
walsh: lose either one of them and there's hell to pay and down here we mean that literally.
scene direction: walsh offers her hand and she actually smiles as she shakes buffy's hand
walsh: again, welcome to the team.
scene change: cut to student lounge. willow and tara are sitting on sofa chairs leaning on the arm rests. tara is holding a clear purple-pink crystal in the palms of her hands.
willow: this is so cool. wow. i've been trying to find the dolls-eye crystal my entire life. well, since june, anyway. where'd you get it?
tara: it-it was my grandma's, i think. i found it a long time ago in my attic.
scene direction: tara hesitantly
tara: i-i want you to have it.
willow: oh, no, tara. th-that's really sweet. i can't. it's like a family heirloom. i-i just wouldn't feel comfortable.
scene direction: tara looks a little hurt and she puts the crystal away. willow see this.
willow: but i-if you wanted to try out some spells with it some time, i wouldn't say no.
scene direction: tara eager
tara: maybe tonight. i mean, if you're not doing something you could . . come over and we could do something.
scene direction: tara smiles
scene direction: willow uncomfortable
willow: tonight . . . that sounds really nice. but tonight i, uh, already have plans with people. other.
scene direction: tara hurt again
tara: oh. um, that's okay. another . . time.
willow: absolutely. it's just tonight, it-it's kind of a specific crowd. you might feel out of place.
scene direction: tara is silent for a moment.
tara: i better get to class.
scene direction: she grabs her books and stands up. willow stands up with her.
willow: well, um, i'll see ya later. okay?
scene direction: tara just nods and walks off.
scene change: cut to initiative headquarters. walsh walks up to the metal security door and zips her security card through the keypad. the door unlocks and she steps inside. she continues down the corridor to another door and punches in a code and slides the cards again. she enters and as the door closes the number 314 is on it.
scene change: cut to interior of the lab room. walsh closes the door behind her.
scene direction: dr. angleman, who just got through washing his hands at a sink, turns to face her as he dries them.
angleman: how did the tour go?
walsh: i'm not sure. she's unpredictable. she walks across the room. her attention is on something we cannot see.
angleman: she's an unnecessary risk.
walsh: possibly. how's our baby doing today?
angleman: adjusting nicely. reflexes, motor-functions. all off the charts.
walsh: that's what i like to hear.
scene direction: walsh to whatever she's looking at
walsh: almost time to wake up, adam. cut to the lab table. we see a young man laying under a blanket, only his chest and head visible. but he doesn't look like a normal man.
scene direction: his brown hair is neatly trimmed, the most normal feature, while more than half of his face is covered in dark green skin, the rest of his face a human pale. there is also metal plating on the green left side of his face, from jaw to temple. most of his chest is also green as well as is his right shoulder, but we can also see patches of other different types of skin. wherever skins meet there is a line of sutured or welded-on scars like a grotesque demonic jigsaw. there seems to be numerous iv lines and monitoring connections disappearing under the blanket.
scene direction: walsh soft voice
walsh: and take your first look at the world. i know you're gonna make me proud.
scene change: *** part two ***
scene change: cut to the bronze that night. music is playing ('trashed' by lavish)
scene direction: and people, mostly young, are socializing. camera pans over to where willow and anya are sitting at a table. willow is lifting her sleeve to check her watch, probably not for the first time. xander is walking to them while unwrapping a boost bar and taking a bite.
scene direction: anya indignantly
anya: xander. you haven't been paying any attention to me, tonight. just peddling those process food breaks. i don't know why.
scene direction: xander around mouthful
xander: well, let me put it in a way you'll understand. sell bars. make money. take anya nice places. buy pretty things.
scene direction: anya considers
anya: that does make sense. all right, i support you. go sell more.
xander: oh, well this was the only one i had on me. besides, it's getting late. maybe we should go.
willow: go? you can't go. buffy hasn't gotten here yet.
xander: let's face it, will. she's over an hour late. she's probably out living the life of riley. i don't think she's coming.
willow: she is!
scene direction: willow unconvincingly
willow: she said she was looking forward to spending quality time with just us.
scene direction: willow brightens
willow: see? here she comes.
scene direction: shot of buffy walking into the bronze followed by riley, graham, forrest, and two other guys.
scene direction: 'keep myself awake' by black lab starts to play.
scene direction: willow crestfallen
willow: . . .with riley . . . and some other guys.
scene direction: buffy and the young men reach their table.
buffy: hi, all. sorry about the late-itude.
xander: late? really? huh. hadn't noticed.
riley: hope you don't mind us tagging along.
scene direction: willow forced smile
willow: no. no, of course not. the more the . . . more.
riley: this is graham. this is forrest. that's kevin. and that's jay in the back.
graham: how you doing.
riley: we're gonna go grab some drinks. anybody want anything?
buffy: coke, please.
willow: i'm good.
xander: no.
scene direction: they look to anya with the offer.
scene direction: anya frowns
anya: we're going away. to dance. over there.
scene direction: she stands up and takes xander's arm.
scene direction: xander being dragged away
xander: we are?
scene direction: riley and the guys head over to the bar and buffy sits on anya's stool across from willow.
buffy: anya seems a bit on edge.
willow: she's a little angsty around commando-types. ex-demon issues.
buffy: oh.
scene direction: buffy points to the guys
buffy: you know, i didn't think that you would mind. riley and the guys were throwing a little impromptu celebration in my honor and made it, like, impossible to not invite them.
willow: oh. that's neat about the celebrating. i just thought this was supposed to be, you know, just us. just the scooby corps., you know. i mean, i could have invited somebody else if i knew it was an open free-for-all.
buffy: i'm sorry. i had no idea. my *total* bad.
scene direction: buffy grins
buffy: so, who did you want to invite?
willow: what?
buffy: you said you wanted to invite someone.
scene direction: willow nervously
willow: no. not-- no one. i meant a hypothetical someone which is to say no one. what are we celebrating?
scene direction: buffy lowers voice, but excited
buffy: i'm in. the initiative. professor walsh gave me the grand tour and we're talking grand as in canyon! you'd never believe the size of it.
willow: that's really . . . again i say 'neat.' so, what do you mean exactly? you've joined them?
buffy: no. n-not exactly. it just means that when i patrol i'll have a heavily armed team backing me up.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: plus, boyfriend going to work with me - big extra perk.
willow: buffy, do you really think this is a good idea? i mean, don't you think you're rushing things a little?
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: i thought you liked riley?
willow: not with riley. with the initiative. i mean, there's a bunch of stuff about them we still don't know.
buffy: i know that.
scene direction: buffy then
buffy: like what?
willow: well, what's their ultimate agenda? i mean, okay, yeah, they-they neuter vampires and demons. but then what? are they gonna reintegrate them into society? get them jobs as bagboys at wal-mart?
scene direction: buffy in serious thought
buffy: does wal-mart have bagboys?
willow: plus, don't forget that '314' thing that ethan told giles about.
buffy: well, a man that worships chaos and tries to kill you, is a man you can trust.
willow: well, bad info or not, i just think there's certain questions you should ask before you go off and enlist.
scene direction: a pager goes off and buffy reaches into her bag to pull it out. two seconds later five more beepers go off at the bar and riley checks his pager.
riley: that's us. let's go.
willow: when did you get a pager? what's going--?
scene direction: riley steps up to the table and buffy stands up.
riley: that's our cue. mother wants us.
scene direction: buffy turns to willow
buffy: will . . .
willow: i know. talk later.
scene direction: she doesn't look happy as she watches buffy leave with riley and the others.
buffy: so what's the big emergency?
scene change: cut to briefing area at initiative hq. there is an overhead projector displaying the image of an ugly demon on a large white screen. riley is standing to one side of the screen as professor walsh walks in front of the group of commandos seated in rows before her. among them near the back, buffy sticks out as a girl in a sea of broad-shouldered military green.
walsh: this is your objective. sub-t 67119. demon class: polgara species. though visual confirmation has not yet been made, we're confident of the target's approximate position as it leaves behind a distinct protein marker. dr. angleman will brief you on its defenses.
scene direction: she takes a seat to the side as dr. angleman steps up next to the projector and overlays a second transparent page over the first. this adds long sharp looking protrusions from the demon's arms.
angleman: when threatened . . . bone skewers jut from the creature's forearms during battle. it's imperative when ensnaring it not to damage its arms. that's all you really need to know.
scene direction: amidst the commandos buffy raises her hand.
buffy: question.
scene direction: dr. angleman doesn't seem sure how to respond, unaccustomed by this.
scene direction: he glances at walsh who stands up again.
walsh: buffy?
buffy: why exactly can't we damage this polka thing's arms? i, uh, not that i want to, it's just in my experience when fighting for your life body parts get damaged and-- better its bits than mine.
scene direction: buffy glances at the guys around her
buffy: or . . . ours.
angleman: we wish to study the physiology of every subterrestrial's natural defenses. it's part of the research we do here.
scene direction: angleman pauses before he can continue--
angleman: uh-- yes? we see that buffy had her hand raised again.
buffy: what do they want?
angleman: want?
buffy: why are they here? sacrifices, treasure, or they just get rampagy?
scene direction: buffy she is starting to get looks from the commandos
buffy: i find it's easier to predict their responses if i know--.
angleman: they're not sentient. just destructive, i believe.
walsh: they do have keen eyesight, however. you might want to be suited up for this.
buffy: oh.
scene direction: buffy glancing at the military green around her
buffy: you mean the cammo and stuff? i thought about it but, i mean, it's gonna look all 'private benjamin'.
scene direction: this gets chuckles from some of the commandos.
buffy: don't worry i've patrolled in this halter many times.
scene direction: this gets even more chuckles and riley has to bow his head and clench his jaw to keep from laughing his ass off.
walsh: why don't we give our attention to dr. angleman-.
scene direction: buffy raises hand.
walsh: -and save all questions until the end.
angleman: actually, i'm finished.
walsh: oh. uh, well, agent finn, deploy the teams.
scene direction: all business, riley walks out in front of the group.
riley: okay, listen up. we'll be going in a four squad set-up. team leaders - gates, taggart, and stavros. alpha team, you're with me.
walsh: report for tls for assignment and weapons requisitions. reminder this is a zap-n-trap, people. capture not a kill. any questions?
scene direction: walsh sees a raised hand
scene direction: walsh sighing
walsh: buffy.
scene change: cut to the front of a closed door. it opens and it's tara's room.
scene direction: she is surprised to see the person who is standing in the hallway.
tara: willow?
scene direction: willow sheepishly
willow: a funny thing happened with my prior social engagement. pretty much ended when a friend of mine went off to do something with another crowd she hangs out with. irony is kind of ironic that way.
scene direction: willow hopefully
willow: anyway, i know it's late, but i-i thought maybe-- i mean, if you still wanted to . . . do something?
scene direction: tara just smiles and opens the door wider to let her inside. she closes the door.
scene change: cut to a wooded area. alpha team is on patrol. buffy is with them.
scene direction: she is walking beside riley, three other commandos behind them. she's wearing a jacket over her halter top and looks a little glum with her hands shoved in the pockets.
buffy: so i guess she hates me now.
scene direction: riley distracted
riley: what?
buffy: professor walsh. questions. an initiative faux pas, yes?
riley: it's . . . a little unusual. she's just not used to it. maybe because you barely ever opened your mouth in her classroom. but i know she likes you. in fact, she liked you before i did.
scene direction: buffy hopeful
buffy: really?
riley: told me so herself.
buffy: maybe i should get her a present or something--.
scene direction: riley stops
riley: buffy. can we talk about this later? there's a dangerous hostile out here and . . . since i don't have your reflexes, i kinda need to focus.
buffy: right. right.
scene direction: they start walking again. after a moment she looks at him.
buffy: what do you mean she liked me before you did?
scene direction: riley oops
riley: uh. . . .
buffy: you didn't like me?
scene direction: as riley tries to take his boot out of his mouth the camera pans to see what beta team is up to. they're stationed within a cluster of bushes. graham is scanning the area with night vision goggles and forrest is standing beside him. forrest seems to be in a mood of his own.
scene direction: forrest grumbling
forrest: it just isn't right.
graham: he made you team leader, didn't he?
forrest: that's not the point. i've always been riley's second in command. instead he picks a girl.
graham: his girl.
forrest: whatever! three guesses on what that boy is thinking with.
graham: maybe he just wanted to give you a chance to get out from under his shadow?
forrest: hey! i'm not under anybody's shadow.
graham: it was a joke, man. don't get your panties in a bunch. i'm just saying--
scene direction: graham sees something through the goggles
graham: hang on. got something.
forrest: target?
graham: negative.
scene direction: graham passes the goggles to forrest. night vision pov - shot of spike strolling along carrying a sack of groceries.
forrest: hel-lo, hostile 17.
scene direction: graham to commandos behind him
graham: you two - standard flanking. go.
scene change: the two appointed commandos hurry off to their mission. cut to front shot of spike walking. behind him one of the commandos rush out of the trees carrying a heavy net. he's about to throw the net on spike when the vampire suddenly spins around and catches it in his fist. he swings the commando around and slams him into a nearby tree. the second commando charges and aims his taser rifle at him. spike throws his grocery bag in the guy's face and he falls to the ground. spike flinches back at the pain the initiative implant causes him. he turns and flees into the woods.
scene change: cut to graham. he has a scoped rifle shouldered and is calmly tracking spike in his sights. he pulls the trigger and spike stumbles as he's hit in the shoulder. growling, he continues to run.
scene direction: forrest to graham
forrest: alert control and alpha team. we've tagged hostile 17 with a tracer and we're in pursuit.
scene direction: return to buffy and alpha team who are now stationed in a clearing.
scene direction: panning shot of the three commandos as a cell phone beeps. buffy is standing beside riley who is scanning the area with night vision goggles. one of the commandos steps up to him with the cell phone.
commando: sir. graham's on the talkie for you. reception's not too good.
scene direction: riley into phone
riley: this is alpha team, go ahead. we hear graham's garbled voice but can't make out any of the words.
scene direction: riley moves further out into the clearing trying to get a better reception.
riley: say again, beta team. you're breaking up.
scene direction: he doesn't see the polgara demon burst out of the trees behind him, but buffy does.
buffy: riley!
scene direction: riley only has time to see the demon before it shoves him hard to the ground. buffy rushes forward, as the polgara steps over riley to finish him off, and snaps a round kick to its face making it stagger.
scene direction: she steps over riley spinning into a roundhouse kick across the creature's face and the scene goes into slow-mo.
scene direction: cue "window to your soul" by delirium as riley stands up beside buffy. he pulls out an asp and there is an echoing snap as he extends it with a flick of his wrist and the audio (except for the music) fades completely. both ready to kick ass, they charge the demon together.
scene change: cut to some time later that night in riley's room at lowell house.
scene direction: he and buffy rush into frame from either side and start kissing passionately. riley is wearing normal civvie clothes again and buffy no longer has her jacket on. skip a few frames and riley has his head buried in her shoulder, kissing her neck as they rub their hands up and down each other's backs.
scene direction: cut back to now. riley is hitting the demon in the arm with the asp, making it stumble, then hits it again in the back of the head.
scene change: cut to riley's room. close up of his hands undoing the knot on the spaghetti straps of buffy's halter crisscrossing her back. when it's loose he caresses his hand over her bare skin.
scene change: cut to now. riley's just succeeded in pissing the polgara off and it knocks him aside with the swing of its powerful arm. buffy steps in again with another roundkick to its face and follows through with a hard right-left combination.
scene change: cut to riley's room and close up of riley kneeling in front of buffy, pulling off her knee-high leather boot.
scene direction: the polgara is backhanding a commando, flipping him to the ground.
scene direction: riley, behind it, jabs the asp into the demon's spine.
scene change: cut to riley's room and buffy is pulling riley's white t-shirt over his head. her halter is hanging loosely.
scene change: cut to now riley swings the asp again but the polgara blocks it and punches him hard across the face. buffy delivers a back-kick into the creature's chest as riley falls to the ground.
scene change: cut to riley's room buffy is trailing a line of kisses down the front of riley's body, starting at his chest.
scene change: cut to now and buffy slams another right-left punching combo into the polgara's face.
scene direction: it raises its arm and its bone skewer extends from under its forearm.
scene direction: she ducks as it takes a swing at her head. riley is getting to his knees. buffy blocks another strike and knees the demon in the midsection.
scene change: cut to riley's room riley is behind buffy slowly sliding the halter off her shoulders.
scene change: cut to now buffy side steps the polgara as it tries to stab her and gets behind it. the demon turns to face her again.
scene change: cut to riley's room buffy is kissing riley over her shoulder as he caresses her cheek with his hand. more missing frames and buffy is suddenly sucking one of his fingers as he kisses her shoulder.
scene change: cut to now buffy ducks under another of the polgara's swings. riley picks up a fallen taser gun and takes aim, but buffy is too close to the creature for a clear shot.
scene change: cut to riley's room buffy lays back on riley's bed and he slowly lowers himself down on top of her. a couple of missing frames and they're kissing.
scene direction: she's caressing his chest.
scene change: cut to now buffy slams a two-legged drop kick into the polgara's chest and drops to the ground as it staggers back. riley shouts 'now' and he and another commando unleash their tasers. the demon is blasted by the bursts of electricity and the other two commandos are readying a heavy net behind it.
scene change: cut to riley's room buffy is now on top and lowers herself down on riley. more deep kissing, his arms around her.
scene change: cut to now they have the polgara in the net and it's struggling while buffy gets to her feet. the audio returns and slow-mo ends as she snaps a front kick into its face, knocking the creature out. the commandos wrap things up and buffy takes a few steps back, breathing heavy. riley stands beside her. they face each other.
buffy: so . . . what do you want to do now? before he says anything-- cut to riley's room which becomes *now* and riley is on top again as they continue to make love. the music is replaced by a more sinister theme as we cut to a black and white ceiling-shot of riley's room. the camera pulls back and we see we're looking into a surveillance monitor. there is a label on top of the monitor that has 'finn' written on it. as the shot continues to pull back we see two more monitors to either side of it with similar shots of, currently, empty rooms. one is labeled 'gates' the other 'miller.' a control panel becomes visible under the row of monitors. there are two reels of tape spinning, obviously in 'record' mode, and there is someone sitting in front of the control panel.
scene change: cut to closing shot of professor walsh. her face is free of any telling expression but her right eye twitches once as she watches.
scene change: *** part three ***
scene direction: fade in on giles' apartment. next morning. we can see giles in the kitchen, through the opening above his bar, pouring some tea.
scene direction: giles over his shoulder
giles: i don't know how many more ways i can say 'i'm not interested.' we see xander and anya are sitting on the couch in the living room area. there are several boost bar boxes on the coffee table.
xander: w-- try one! check these flavors. cherry-berry. maple walnut. ooo, almond licorice.
anya: ew.
scene direction: giles leaves the kitchen and stands next to the coffee table.
xander: anya, we don't say 'ew' in front of potential customers.
anya: just skip this part and tell him you want money to buy me pretty things. he'll understand.
scene direction: giles sighing
giles: very well. hmm, maple walnut.
xander: an excellent choice.
scene direction: he takes one out of a box and hands it to giles. giles tears the aluminum off the end and takes a bite. he quickly stops chewing and there is a disgusted look on his face.
scene direction: giles menacingly
giles: please leave my home now.
scene direction: he drops the boost bar on the coffee table  and searches for something to spit in.
scene direction: trying to save the sale, xander grabs another bar from a different box.
xander: it's the, uh, the gritty texture, isn't it? maybe you're more a cherry-berry fellow.
scene direction: there is a pounding on the door. desperate sounding. giles, still suffering from boost crap in his mouth, heads for the door. before he reaches it, it bursts open and spike runs inside. he is holding a tarp over his head, protection from the sunlight.
spike: close the door!
xander: spike? you may want to give up these morning jogs.
spike: soldiers boys are out in force. i've been trying to keep them off my scent. run them in circles. but they keep coming.
scene direction: giles takes a quick inspection of his door but he is still able to close it. spike drops the tarp in relief.
giles: and . . . how is this our concern? seeing as how you've expressed the desire to have nothing more to do with us.
xander: spike said that?
giles: mm-hmm.
scene direction: xander to spike with feeling
xander: . . . that hurts.
scene direction: spike exasperated
spike: all right. what do you want me to say? i need help.
scene direction: spike points at giles
spike: and no cheek from you.
scene direction: giles makes a show of zipping his lips shut.
scene direction: spike shrugs his coat off his shoulder
spike: look! the buggers shot me. in the back.
scene direction: giles in unmoved and leans against his desk.
giles: remind me. why should i help you?
scene direction: spike scoff
spike: because you do that. you're the goody-good guys. you're the bloody freaking cavalry.
giles: no, you can come up with a better answer than that. why should *i* help *you*?
scene direction: spike thinks
spike: ooh! because i helped you! when you turned into that fyarl demon, i helped you, didn't i?
scene direction: spike smug
giles: and that was out of the, um, evilness of your heart?
scene direction: spike grinning
spike: oh, hell no. i made you pay me--
scene direction: spike stops grinning and looks at giles' stoic, but hard, expression
spike: you right bastard.
scene direction: spike digs out the money from his coat pocket and slams it into giles' palm
spike: that's all that's left. i spent the rest on blood and smokes, which i'll never see again.
scene direction: spike sees xander and anya still sitting
spike: ah, come on! circle the wagons. tend to the wounded here. no time for layabouts.
scene change: cut to riley's room. buffy is in his bed looking comfortable. she wakes up and her eyes take in her surroundings. worried, she suddenly rolls over and finds riley lying next to her, already awake, looking at her.
scene direction: riley smiling
riley: hey. what's the matter? weren't expecting to see me?
scene direction: buffy relaxing again
buffy: i never know what to expect.
scene direction: they're secure enough with their morning breaths and start kissing in a lazy manner. an electronic chirping sound fills the room.
scene direction: buffy laughing
buffy: your robot bird sounds hungry.
riley: it's just a reminder to take my vitamins.
scene direction: he rolls over and grabs a medicine bottle on his nightstand as the chirping ends.
scene direction: buffy teasing
buffy: you're kidding.
scene direction: he downs the pills with a glass of water and returns to his original position. tucking the sheet around her chest, buffy sit up against the headboard.
riley: sorry.
scene direction: buffy starts to play with his short bangs with her fingers
buffy: quite the regimental soldier.
riley: i am how they trained me.
buffy: they? who they?
riley: you know, the government. plucked me out of special op training for this.
buffy: what did they tell you it was for?
riley: they didn't. in the military you learn to follow orders. not ask questions.
buffy: i don't understand. aren't you curious about all the science and research stuff they're doing?
riley: hm. i know all i need to know. we're doing good here. protecting the public. removing the subterrestrial threat. it's work worth doing.
scene direction: they're silent for a moment. buffy becomes serious.
buffy: what's 314?
scene direction: riley seems surprised by the question but before he can say anything, his phone rings.
scene direction: riley answers it
riley: riley.
scene direction: walsh vo
walsh: we have a situation. you're needed.
riley: on my way.
scene direction: he hangs up.
buffy: what is it?
riley: don't know.
scene direction: riley gets up
buffy: you're really not one for asking questions, are you?
scene direction: riley smiles
riley: i'll leave that to you.
scene change: cut to initiative headquarters. riley, in commando attire, is walking across the floor when he glances at the metal security door and stops.
scene direction: he walks over and peers through the small wired-glass window. down the corridor he can see the door marked 314.
walsh: lose your way, agent?
scene direction: turns to face walsh, standing behind him.
riley: no ma'am.
walsh: i've instructed beta team to suspend pursuit of hostile 17 until your arrival. i didn't want any slip-ups, that's why i'm putting you in charge.
scene direction: walsh hands him a piece of paper
walsh: you'll rendezvous with them at these coordinates.
scene direction: he acknowledges with a nod and starts to walk off.
walsh: riley.
scene direction: walsh he faces her
walsh: make me proud.
riley: yes, ma'am.
scene direction: he continues on and walsh watches him leave.
scene change: cut to lab behind door 314. dr. angleman is in surgical scrubs and has just finished using an electric bone-saw on something we can't see.
scene direction: walsh os
walsh: i think we've got a situation. angleman looks up from his work and as he pulls his mask down we see his latexed fingers are bloodied.
angleman: the slayer?
scene direction: walsh begins to pace
walsh: she's becoming a liability.
angleman: we knew that was a danger. does she know about the project?
walsh: she knows it exists. she already holds too much influence over riley --over agent finn.
angleman: we move to the contingency scenario?
walsh: right away. angleman is now using scissor clamps on the something we still can't see.
angleman: that's too bad. she could have been a powerful ally.
walsh: i know.
angleman: and finn will take it hard.
walsh: that's why sooner is better. we finally see what angleman was working on as he lifts the left arm, severed at the shoulder, of the polgara demon lying on the table. he moves away from the table with it and we can see adam on a another table several feet away.
scene direction: walsh to herself
walsh: it's better.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. spike is sitting backwards in a chair, his bare chest against the backrest. giles is standing behind him, wearing latex gloves, exploring the wound with a pair of long tweezers. xander and anya are on either side of him shining flashlights on the wound.
spike: oww! watch it. that hurts.
giles: it doesn't appear to be a bullet. it's too deeply embedded to be a tranquilizer dart.
scene direction: spike grumble
spike: also not tranquil.
giles: some sort of . . . illumination emanating from it. it's blinking.
spike: i don't care if it's playing 'rockin' the casbah' on the bloody jew's harp,
scene direction: spike human growling
spike: just get it out of me!
giles: anya, there's a bottle of cognac in the cabinet next to the sink. can you get it for me?
scene direction: spike as she leaves
spike: what? you're gonna get snockered now?
giles: it's not for me, you prat. if i'm gonna operate on you then i need you in anesthetized. it's going to take some time.
scene direction: giles picks up a scalpel
xander: we don't have any. that blinking thing. my pseudo-soldier memory bank tells me that's a tracer.
giles: a what?
spike: a what?
xander: it's like a homing beacon. and if commando guys are reading the signal, they're coming home.
scene direction: anya returns with the bottle and offers it to spike. he grabs it and takes a healthy swig.
giles: well, we need to buy some time. it's in deep and i'm no surgeon.
scene change: cut to buffy and willow's dorm room, in stevenson hall. buffy walks inside and closes the door behind her. the room is empty and she sees that willow's bed is just as undisturbed as her own. she goes to her desk to put down her bag and takes off her jacket. she's no longer wearing the infamous halter top, she's wearing a dark long-sleeve blouse. the door opens behind her and willow walks in.
willow: oh, hi.
buffy: hey.
scene direction: buffy indicating the bed
buffy: out all night, huh?
willow: you, too.
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: they're silent for a moment and willow is fidgeting with something in her hand. it's the dolls-eye crystal she had refused from tara yesterday.  she walks to her side of the room and sets it on top of her dresser.
buffy: sorry about bailing on you guys at the bronze.
willow: that's okay. i . . .
scene direction: willow glances at the crystal, then to buffy
willow: don't worry about it.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: okay.
scene direction: buffy's pager goes off and she retrieves it from her bag.
willow: wow, they really keep you hopping, don't they?
scene direction: buffy clipping it to the waistband of her blue jeans
buffy: yeah. i gotta go. i'll see ya?
scene direction: willow watches her leave. then the phone rings and she crosses the room to answer it.
willow: hello?
scene change: cut to giles. he's using his new cordless phone.
giles: willow. you're there at last. we have a problem. where's buffy?
scene direction: willow cut to
willow: just left.
scene direction: willow sarcastic
willow: beeped away by her new buds. you want me to go after her?
scene direction: giles cut to
giles: uh, no, no. it's your help i need, actually.
scene direction: willow cut to
willow: really? what do you want me to do?
scene change: cut to initiative headquarters. buffy is walking with walsh.
walsh: it's a small job. reconnaissance. probably a waste of a slayer's abilities, but my boys are on assignment so i-- buffy: no. it's okay. i'm up for some action.
walsh: i doubt you'll get any on this one.
scene direction: they reach a table and walsh points to a map.
walsh: we have a reading of a class three subterrestrial moving through the sewer tunnels just on the edge of town.
buffy: class three?
walsh: it's a low-level threat. minimal aggression. meager defenses.
commando: professor walsh.
scene direction: commando walks up and hands her a taser rifle
walsh: they barely show up on the scanner and occasionally turn out to be raccoons.
scene direction: walsh hands the weapon to buffy
scene direction: buffy examining it
buffy: wow. you're not crazy about raccoons, huh?
walsh: we always take precautions.
scene direction: walsh picks up the com-cam from the table
walsh: all we need you to do is get a visual on this thing. this will feed me back an image and i can advise you from there. i don't want to put you in any unnecessary danger.
scene direction: walsh hands it to buffy
buffy: oh. that's okay. danger's my birthright.
scene direction: not used to such a weapon, buffy carelessly lets the barrel point towards walsh, who casually diverts the weapon away with her hand.
buffy: sorry. um, professor walsh. there's, uh-- there's still some stuff about all this that i'm not clear on.
scene direction: walsh a beat
walsh: well, when you get back we can have a talk.
buffy: good. okay. when i get back.
scene direction: buffy turns to leave then stops
buffy: am i supposed to salute you?
walsh: no.
buffy: okay.
scene direction: buffy walks off and walsh glances down at the table. then she looks over her shoulder to watch buffy leave.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. panning shot from the cognac bottle, hanging loosely in spike's hand, we see he has a barely conscious expression on his face. he's now laying across the cleared surface of giles' desk. xander, and anya are still in normal positions as giles continues to work on the wound and willow is now there standing to one side. she is reading from her 'witchcraft' spellbook in one arm and is holding the dolls-eye crystal in her other palm.
scene direction: willow chanting spell
willow: tropo, strato, meso, aero, iono, exo . . .
scene direction: xander to giles
xander: so how is this supposed to work again?
giles: if she succeeds her spell will ionize the atmosphere around us thereby disrupting the tracer's signal. buys us time.
scene direction: willow chanting
willow: elements are brought to bear. wind, earth, and water churn amidst the fire. let the air be burned.
scene direction: they all jump as the spell takes effect and there is a shot of every lightbulb in the apartment exploding.
scene direction: willow os
willow: did it work? is the atmosphere ionized? shot of our gang. their hair is standing up. we can't see spike's hair in this shot. they glance at one another and static electricity can be heard doing the 'snap, crackle, pop' in their hair.
scene direction: giles deadpan
giles: i'd venture yes.
scene change: cut to wooded area. riley has joined up with beta team and forrest is on point with the tracer receiver beeping in his hand.
riley: what do you mean, the signal's whacked?
forrest: i mean the blips a blob. some kind of interference messing with the tracer.
riley: try to lock it down. we headed in the right general direction?
scene direction: they stop as forrest tries to get a bearing.
scene direction: forrest sighs
forrest: i think so. it's gonna put us in populated areas.
riley: okay, then. we change into civvies and then move out. maybe something will turn up.
scene direction: they continue on.
scene change: cut to buffy in the sewers. we see her emerging from a tunnel and she steps inside a larger chamber. she's armed with the taser rifle and is wearing the com-cam hooked over her left ear. she hears a snarling sound coming from deep in the chamber.
scene direction: buffy into mic
buffy: professor walsh, are you getting this? possible sht? make it a definite.
scene direction: she sees a green squid-faced demon step out, wearing ragged robes and carrying a long battle ax. a second demon steps out with it, also armed with a battle ax.
buffy: and he's brought along a friend. they seem--.
scene direction: buffy suddenly flashbacks to her tour at the initiative and remembers seeing these two demons being worked on in 'the pit.' buffy aims the taser rifle at them and pulls the trigger. the weapon short-circuits with a burst of sparks and buffy drops it from the shock. she turns to flee the way she came but a barred gate is dropping in place, blocking her escape into the tunnel.
scene direction: buffy looks at the approaching demons and has a 'oh, fuck me!' expression on her face.
scene change: *** part four ***
scene direction: back where we left buffy. she is standing on a three-foot raised section as she watches the demons approach. on the ground level, the taser rifle is still short-circuiting, shooting sparks. the demons charge and she hops down, hitting them with alternating front kicks.
scene direction: the second demon is quicker to recover and swings the ax down at her head. she side steps and kicks it in the back of the knee, throwing it off balance, and sends a back kick into the first demon. the second demon gets up again smashing the ax handle into her chin, turning her around. the first demon is swinging its ax at her and she catches the handle with her hands. as they struggling with it, the second demon slams the handle of its ax into the small of her back.
scene direction: the first demon uses this to wrest free its weapon from buffy's hold and she falls to the ground in a shoulder roll.
scene direction: as she stands back up to face the demons, cut to a black and white shot of the com-cam's pov. on the monitor the rhythm of her heart beat and that her bpm is 145. her hands are raised in a fighting stance and the picture starts to jerk wildly as she dodges the demons' attacks. heard are her sounds of exertion and the growls of the creatures.
scene change: cut to walsh, standing in front of control's operations panel, watching the monitors. she calmly takes a sip from her coffee mug as the fight continues.
scene direction: com-cam pov. buffy's hands grab the handle of one of the demon's ax and wrestles with it. the other demon attacks and swings its ax down towards the screen. the picture suddenly drops to the ground showing a close up of the sewer floor. the bpm drops from 145 . . . 109 . . . 73 . . . 37 . . . 1 . . . -?- in less than a second and the heart rhythm flatlines with the a steady monotonous beep. . . . .
scene direction: walsh glances around but she is the only person who knows what's happened. she calmly takes another sip from her mug.
scene direction: cut back to beta team. they are in civvies and walking down the sidewalk of a residential street.
riley: talk to me, forrest.
forrest: signal's somewhere in this neighborhood. estimate within a two-block radius.
scene direction: in giles' apartment. giles is digging into spike's wound with the tweezers while anya holds the flashlight for him. she, xander, and willow or nervously munching on boost bars. their hair is more or less back to normal.
willow: it feels, and looks, like the ionizing spell is wearing off.
xander: giles?
giles: i've got it. i've got it! he holds up the tweezers and we see a two-inch dart with a blinking red light on the blunt end.
scene direction: cut  to beta team. they're getting closer.
riley: okay, we want to keep the hostile contained, so no one is to make a move without my--.
scene direction: forrest stops
forrest: wait. signal's cleared up.
scene direction: forrest points across the street
forrest: there.
riley: let's go!
scene direction: they take off across the street.
scene direction: giles' apartment. he hands xander the tweezers.
giles: um, go!
scene direction: with the tracer in one hand, boost bar in the other, xander dashes down the hallway and skids around the corner.
scene direction: forrest suddenly stops.
riley: what?
forrest: it's on the move.
riley: heading?
forrest: straight at us. forty meters and closing. moving fast.
graham: in broad daylight?
riley: look alive people. weapons at the ready.
scene direction: they unsling their backpacks and slip a hand inside.
forrest: twenty-five meters . . . twenty . . . fifteen.
riley: where?
forrest: to the left. ten meters . . . five!
riley: anyone?
graham: i got nothing.
forrest: this doesn't make sense. it went right past us.
scene direction: they're all looking around. riley notices a drain gutter.
scene direction: riley disgusted
riley: flushed. the tracers been flushed.
scene change: cut to the sewers. close up shot of the com-cam lying on the dirty sewer floor, without buffy's head. camera can hear buffy and the demons still fighting.
scene direction: returning to the handicap match already in progress . . .
scene direction: they have buffy surrounded and the first demon charges but she deflects the ax and shoves the creature into the second the demon, pinning it against the wall. she steps forward with an inward crescent kick to knock the ax aside and slams a right fist into its gut. not missing a beat, she's already following through with a hard left hook, as the first demon bends forward giving her a clear shot at the second demon's face. she raises a knee into the first demon's face, making him stand straight again, and then spins into a jumping back kick, slamming them both against the wall again.
scene direction: stunned, the first demon falls on its face, but the second demon charges buffy. she's able to grab the handle of its ax as it drives her back into the opposite wall. she wrestles with it as the first demon gets back to its feet and starts to swing its ax directly at buffy. in the last instant, she twists the second demon around in front of her, who takes the blade in the stomach.
scene direction: as it falls to the ground dead, the first demon takes another swing at buffy who ducks away. the demon quickly follows through into another swing and she catches the handle again. she diverts the blade away from her and takes a quick punch at the creature's face. it's stunned and she rips the ax from its grip and the weapon flies away from them.
scene direction: but buffy is off balance as she backs away. the demon takes advantage by punching her hard in the face, sending her to floor.
scene direction: the demon goes after its weapon, stepping into a drainage canal where the ax is laying. buffy raises her head a notices the still-sparking taser rifle just a couple of feet from her. as the demon bends down to pick up its weapon, she sees it's standing in water. getting to her knees, she snatches up the taser and tosses it at the demon's feet. it hits the water and electricity dances over the creature as it spasms wildly, growling in pain. the chamber is lit up and buffy just watches until it finally falls in the water dead. buffy catches her breath.
scene change: cut to initiative headquarters. riley walks up behind walsh who is still standing in front of the control operations panel. at the sound of his voice she turns to face him. she looks shakened.
riley: regret to report hostile 17 is still at large. i left beta team to comb the area but the tracer's--.
scene direction: walsh interrupting
walsh: riley, something's happened. i-i don't know what to say. it-it-it's about buffy.
riley: buffy?
scene direction: she takes a few steps away from the monitors, com-cam pov still on the sewer floor, and riley stands in front of her.
walsh: two of our hostiles broke free and escaped into the tunnels. she . . .went after them on her own.
scene direction: walsh meets his eyes
walsh: she's dead, riley.
scene direction: riley shocked and in pain
riley: . . . . what?!
walsh: i did everything i could to stop her. i told her to wait for a back-up team, she kept insisting she didn't need any team. she could handle it by herself. i-i'm so, so sorry.
scene direction: riley's obviously struggling not to break down as he hears this.
riley: i don't understand.
scene direction: behind walsh, the com-cam image on the monitors suddenly start to move.
walsh: i know what she meant to you.
riley: how could this happen?
walsh: she was a very, very special girl.
scene direction: the com-cam image is still and buffy steps into the picture and kneels in front of it. her expression is pissed to the tenth power.
walsh: i didn't understand at first. but she had something. i don't know . . . maybe i could have stopped her.
scene direction: riley sees buffy's face in the monitors.
walsh: it's hard not to blame myself.
scene direction: buffy steely voice
buffy: professor walsh. that simple little recon you sent me on . . . wasn't a raccoon.
scene direction: walsh slowly faces the monitors.
buffy: turns out it was me trapped in the sewers with a faulty weapon and two of your pet demons. if you think that's enough to kill me, you really don't know what a slayer is.
scene direction: walsh is speechless.
buffy: trust me when i say you're gonna find out.
scene direction: buffy stands up and walks off camera. the image suddenly pitches to the floor and there is a crunch as all the screens turn snowy with static.
scene direction: walsh slowly turns to face riley again. he's looking down at her doing a pretty good tenth power pissed expression himself.
walsh: riley . . .
scene direction: without a word he starts walking away.
walsh: agent finn. i order you to stop!
scene direction: he doesn't.
walsh: agent finn!
scene direction: he's gone.
walsh: riley!
scene change: cut to giles' apartment. he's removing the latex gloves. spike is sitting on the edge of the desk, putting his black t-shirt back on, careful of his wounded shoulder.
giles: it will be dark soon. i think it will be wise for you to leave sunnydale.
spike: i'm not going anywhere. not until those bastards undo whatever they did to me. put me back the way i was.
scene direction: xander sarcastic
xander: sure. just explain to the nice scientist guys that you really miss killing and torturing innocent people.
spike: do you think that would work?
scene direction: giles removing his glasses
giles: spike-- lord knows why i'm telling you this-- it's for your own good. as long as the initiative is in operation it's not safe for you here.
scene change: cut to buffy who has just walked in.
buffy: no.
scene direction: everyone turns to face her. they see the grave expression on her face.
buffy: it's not safe for any of us. cut to what's behind door number 314. the lab is dimly lit. walsh is approaching the table where adam is still sleeping. he --it-- no longer has a sheet covering him and we can see more of his mismatched demon body. he's wearing commando pants and boots. there is a strange metal/electronic plate on his chest where the heart would be.
scene direction: walsh is speaking in a soft, menacingly halting, but strangely affectionate tone.
scene direction: walsh looking down at him
walsh: so. all right. fine. if she wants a fight, we'll give her one. won't we, adam? i've worked too long. too long . . . to let some little bitch threaten this project. threaten me.
scene direction: walsh paces to the end of the table and puts a hand on adam's boot
walsh: she has no idea who she's dealing with. once she's gone, riley will come around. he'll understand.
scene direction: she turns toward the second table which is empty. the surgical bone-saw is lying on it. she slowly picks it up to put it away.
walsh: it's for the greater good. he'll see that. and if he doesn't . . . well, first things first. remove the complication and when she least expects it--ahh!
scene direction: a long sharp spear suddenly bursts from her chest. shocked, she looks down at it, then looks over her shoulder. she sees adam is awake and standing behind her.
scene direction: walsh fading
walsh: adam? walsh falls and she slides off the spear. adam raises his new polgara left arm and we see the blood on the bone skewer. he's looking down at walsh's body.
adam: mommy.
scene direction: end.
