scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: buffy fighting a vampire. she kicks him, they exchange a few punches, she throws him across the graveyard. riley joins in and kicks the vampire. they exchange punches as buffy loads her crossbow. she brings it to her face and aims. riley throws the vampire over his shoulder. buffy lowers the crossbow to smile proudly. riley lifts the vampire and holds him in position. buffy fires, but a demon appears and shoves riley out of the way, then helps the vampire up. buffy drops her crossbow and joins the fight. she kicks the vampire and then the demon, then moves aside to regroup.
buffy: okay, you get fang, i'll get horny.
scene direction: buffy riley looks at her.
buffy: i mean...
scene direction: the vampire attacks. he throws riley over his shoulder. riley rolls and comes up holding a stake.
scene direction: buffy kicks the demon in the chest, then a circular kick to knock him over. she kicks his knee and punches him several times in the back. riley knees the vampire in the back. buffy has the demon by the neck and stabs him in the back. riley stakes the vampire and he's dust.
scene direction: buffy throws down her weapon and sighs. riley puts his stake back in a thigh holster.
buffy: whoo! vampire-demon tag team.
scene direction: buffy brushing hair out of her face
buffy: who says we can't all get along?
riley: don't recall ever seeing that before.
scene direction: riley steps close to her.
buffy: it never happened.
scene direction: buffy touching his face
buffy: vamps ... hate demons ...
scene direction: buffy riley strokes her hair
buffy: like stripes and polka dots.
scene direction: buffy running her hands down his arms
buffy: major ... clashing.
scene direction: buffy and riley caressing each other
buffy: so, uh ... i guess we should tell giles about this.
riley: right.
buffy: i mean, it's the kind of thing he'd ... wanna know about.
riley: uh-huh.
buffy: like, as soon as possible.
riley: as soon as possible.
scene change: cut to riley's bedroom door opening. riley comes in holding buffy, kissing enthusiastically. she's pulling his shirt off.
buffy: i mean it now. first thing...
scene direction: buffy smooch
buffy: in the morning...
scene direction: buffy smooch
buffy: we go tell giles.
scene direction: buffy riley's carrying her across the room.
riley: first thing. good plan.
scene direction: riley they fall onto the bed.
scene change: *** opening credits ***
scene change: camera pans slowly across the lobby of lowell house, darkened. we see chairs, couches, fireplace. pan up the stairs and across the landing to the door of riley's room. cut to inside the room. riley and buffy asleep, snuggling. riley wakes up, looks at buffy, kisses her shoulder, gets out of bed. creepy music, sounds like the same music in "hush." riley puts on pants and leaves, closing the door quietly. he hears a rattling noise and looks around, looks downstairs, walks slowly through the dark halls toward a door. shot of the doorknob and his hand grasping it. he opens the door and walks into a bathroom. turns on the light. the noise continues. camera pans through the bathroom -- sinks, toilet stalls, bathtub with the shower curtain pulled shut. riley looks around the bathroom, approaches the tub slowly. he yanks back the shower curtain. there's nothing there except a drippy faucet. riley makes a face and turns it off. he stands there looking at it as cheerful music starts.
scene change: cut to an ice-cream truck driving down the street, daylight, making cheery music. cut to xander driving the truck, wearing a red-and-white striped shirt and matching hat. anya sitting next to him.
xander: aw, come on. big party at riley's house. it's gonna be fun. why don't you wanna go?
scene direction: xander he stops the truck
anya: you know why not. those initiative men make me... not comfortable. and you don't care.
xander: they don't even know that you're an ex-demon. and we don't know that they'd care even if they did know. which, by the way, they're not gonna find out.
scene direction: xander gets up and goes into back of truck to set up
xander: anyways, they'll probably be too busy flirting with every other girl at the party to even notice you.
anya: so ... you don't think i'm desirable enough to be flirted with?
scene direction: xander looks surprised.
anya: is that it?
xander: i'm just not gonna win here, am i?
scene direction: anya sighs accusingly
anya: you don't find me attractive anymore.
xander: what are you talking about? i think you're gorgeous.
anya: oh, really? well then, why didn't we have sex last night?
scene direction: xander looks up
xander: is that what this is about? we've gone other nights without sex.
scene direction: anya angry
anya: i know. twice! i can't believe we're breaking up.
xander: breaking- we're not! are we?
anya: of course we are. you, you've obviously grown tired of me. i mean, i've seen it happen to thousands of women over the centuries, i just never thought it would happen to me.
xander: anya, there's a lot more to you and me than the sex.
scene direction: xander anya rolls her eyes
xander: well, there should be! i mean, a relationship is something that you work at. work through. together.
anya: i don't understand. i'm pretty, i'm young... i mean...
scene direction: anya stands up, walks closer
anya: why didn't you take advantage of me? is something wrong with your body?
scene direction: xander getting mad
xander: there's nothing wrong with my body.
anya: well, there must be. i saw that wrinkled man on tv talking about erectile dysfunction-
xander: whoa! hey.
scene direction: xander chuckles nervously
xander: all systems go here.
scene direction: xander gesturing at his crotch
xander: no function problem, okay?
scene direction: anya looks skeptical.
scene direction: xander claps his hands, starts unbuttoning his shirt
xander: you want sex? let's have sex. right here. hot, sweaty, big sex.
scene direction: camera angle changes so we see into the truck from the perspective of the customer window in the side of the truck. xander's hands stop moving. his and anya's heads turn together.
scene direction: shot of a group of kids and parents staring up at them.
scene direction: shot of xander and anya giving false smiles.
giles voiceover: there's always been great discord between them.
scene change: cut to giles holding a rolled-up piece of paper.
giles: and yet you say that the, the vampire went to the demon's aid. the two of them were working as a team?
scene direction: buffy sitting on riley's lap, nods
buffy: everything except giving each other little pats on the behind.
scene direction: we see the interior of a college lounge room. buffy and riley in one chair, giles on their right, willow and tara on the sofa across from them.
giles: extraordinarily odd.
scene direction: giles sits back, crosses his legs, gestures with the paper
giles: as a rule, demons ... have no empathy for any of the species other than their own.
scene direction: shot of buffy and riley giving each other affectionate looks
giles: in fact, most think of
scene direction: giles sees someone walking by, lowers his voice
giles: vampires as ... abominations. mixing with human blood and all.
willow: so ... what brought these two together?
riley: not what. who.
scene direction: giles realizing
giles: adam.
scene direction: giles pulls off his glasses
buffy: think about it. who better to bring together a bunch of ... demon types than someone who's made out of a ... bunch of demon types?
tara: so he's, um, bridging the gap between the races.
willow: huh, like martin luther king.
scene direction: shot of giles raising his eyebrows skeptically
giles: um,
scene direction: giles clears throat
giles: i suggest that, uh, over the next several nights, you two
scene direction: giles looks at buffy's and riley's hands stroking each other
giles: concentrate your patrol in that same area. if there's any other peculiar pairings or groupings, you let me know.
riley: i'll let the squad know as well. they're patrolling.
scene direction: riley to buffy
riley: we'll have a, uh, reserve unit out during the party.
scene direction: giles frown
giles: party?
riley: tomorrow night. we're having a thing.
giles: at a time like this? who, well, whose idea was that?
riley: mine. boys are pretty ragged, need to let off steam.
scene direction: giles nods.
giles: point taken.
riley: you're welcome to come.
giles: well, much as i, uh, long for a good kegger, i have other plans. the espresso pump.
scene direction: giles sits back, looks embarrassed
scene direction: buffy and riley exchange another amorous look, more hand stroking
willow: what are you doing there?
giles: i'm, um, uh, it's a, a meeting of, uh, grownups. it couldn't possibly be of any interest to you lot.
riley: buffy, hey, look at the time. don't you, uh, have a class?
buffy: yeah, in about 20 minutes.
riley: yeah, but ... i have that ... thing...
scene direction: buffy gets it
buffy: right, that ... thing, we could ... squeeze in ... before.
riley: yeah.
scene direction: they get up
buffy: bye!
riley: gotta run.
scene direction: giles waves his paper
scene direction: willow stretching, grinning
willow: they, they're probably going to-
scene direction: willow tara grins
giles: yes, thank you willow, i did attend university in the mesozoic era, i do remember what it's like.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of lowell house, night. cut to inside. it's dark. forrest and graham come down the stairs from the second floor, shivering.
forrest: didn't we just get the furnace fixed? it's freezing!
graham: i'll call in the am, get somebody to come-
scene direction: they hear a noise, turn. walk over to riley's door and listen. rhythmic moaning from behind the door.
forrest: oh, you gotta be kidding me. when do these two come up for air?
scene direction: graham grins.
graham: slaves to the rhythm.
scene direction: they walk off. focus on the door.
scene change: cut to inside the room. buffy and riley in bed, smooching and rolling around. panting, moaning. a hand opens the drawer on the bedside table. there are lots of condoms inside. the hand grabs one and retreats.
scene change: cut to downstairs. another initiative guy (mason) is putting wood on the fire in the fireplace. forrest and graham come down the stairs.
forrest: room shoulda warmed up by now.
mason: i been building this thing for an hour. it's still an icebox in here.
graham: don't bother, mason, we got a couple of heat generators pumpin' away upstairs.
scene direction: mason looks up and grins.
scene direction: forrest and graham grin too, rubbing their arms to keep warm.
scene change: cut to the bedroom. pan up a naked leg. buffy and riley smooching. shot of hands on a naked back. shot from above with buffy on top. closeup on kissing mouths. long shot of them rolling over so riley's on top.
scene change: cut to downstairs. mason finishes with the fire and stands up, blowing on his hands and rubbing them together. he sits in a chair in front of the fire.
scene direction: shot of graham watching the fire, forrest walking away.
scene direction: lingering shot of the fire crackling, flames building.
scene direction: lingering shot of riley's bedroom door.
scene change: cut to the bedroom. more smooching, moaning. buffy's back on top. they get more and more passionate.
scene change: cut to downstairs. flames explode out of the fireplace. mason flinches as the flames engulf him.
graham: jeez!
scene direction: mason screams. his sleeves and the front of his shirt are on fire.
scene direction: forrest looks around, grabs a banner and uses it to extinguish the flames on mason. graham moves forward.
forrest: call a medic. get help!
scene direction: graham runs off.
scene direction: shot of the fireplace. the flames look very contained now.
scene change: *** commercial ***
scene direction: anya walking down an alley, looking annoyed. she turns a corner onto the street. we see the entrance to the bronze in the distance.
spike: grr!
scene direction: spike leaps out, wearing his vampire face, growling. anya jumps back with a yell. spike looks annoyed.
spike: oh, it's you.
scene direction: spike morphs back to human face
anya: spike!
scene direction: anya petulantly
anya: what are you doing? you made me yell really high.
spike: hey! yeah, i did. i scared you.
scene direction: spike grins. walks right up to her until his face is inches from hers
spike: gimme money.
anya: i'm not paying you for scaring me.
scene direction: anya pushes him away.
spike: you're not paying me. i'm robbing you.
anya: oh, well now that's just ludicrous. you can't hurt me because you've got that chip in your brain. also, i like my money the way it is... when it's mine.
scene direction: anya starts to walk past him.
scene direction: spike growls and spins her around.
anya: oh, now come on. you're not even bumpy anymore.
scene direction: spike feels his forehead with fingers
spike: oh. i was just a minute ago. hang on.
scene direction: spike steps back, preparing
spike: get me mad again.
scene direction: anya sighs
anya: does this really work? scaring people into giving you their money?
spike: yeah, it works. keeps me in blood and beers.
scene direction: spike grins
spike: plus, you know, funny. watching those little humans quail.
anya: i'm beginning to understand why you're so friendless.
spike: look who's talking!
scene direction: spike looks her up and down
spike: i don't see droopy boy on your arm.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: did he have better things to do?
scene direction: anya crosses her arms and raises one eyebrow dangerously.
scene change: cut to exterior of lowell house. loud party music, people walking in and out, holding beers. cut to inside, more of the same. xander, buffy, willow and tara standing together.
scene direction: shot of buffy looking across the room and smiling.
forrest voiceover: you're kidding.
scene direction: shot of graham, forrest and riley by the stairs holding beers. riley's looking across the room (at buffy), not paying attention.
forrest: mason requested to go on patrol?
graham: he just didn't want the girls to see him with his eyebrows all burnt off.
scene direction: shot of riley smiling across the room at buffy.
scene direction: shot of buffy smiling back.
forrest: he's lucky that's all he lost.
graham: you shoulda seen it, rye. weird as hell.
scene direction: riley not listening
riley: mm-hmm.
scene change: forrest and graham frown, look where riley's looking. cut to buffy and the gang.
willow: how many kids?
xander: i dunno, a whole herd of them. and some parents to boot.
scene direction: buffy glances at him, then looks past him and smiles
xander: it was kind of embarrassing, which, welcome to life with anya.
tara: so you don't even know if she's coming tonight.
xander: i'm thinking no. she was... pretty upset. which, makes me wonder, is it me? am i the crazy one?
scene direction: xander willow and tara shrug at each other
scene direction: buffy still looking at riley, not listening
buffy: uh-huh. absolutely.
scene direction: the others look where buffy's looking.
willow: hey, buffy, this might be a good time to mention that someone, so not me, spilled something purply on your new peasant top which i would never borrow without asking. still love me?
buffy: uh-huh.
scene direction: willow and tara look at each other and laugh.
scene direction: buffy ponders for a moment, then looks at willow.
buffy: huh? what about my peasant top?
willow: nothin'.
scene direction: tara quickly
tara: xander was just talking about anya.
scene direction: buffy nods.
xander: oh, it's nothing much. just feeling pretty glad right now that a certain ex-demon doesn't have any powers.
scene direction: buffy's attention is gone again, staring over at riley.
anya voiceover: boy, i miss those powers.
scene change: cut to anya and spike sitting on a couch at the bronze, holding beers and looking morose. spike has his arm along the top of the couch, almost touching her.
spike: yeah, tell me about it.
anya: a year and a half ago, i could have eviscerated him with my thoughts. now i can barely hurt his feelings.
scene direction: anya sighs
anya: things used to be so much simpler.
scene direction: spike wistfully
spike: you know ... you take the killing for granted.
scene direction: anya nods nostalgically.
spike: and then it's gone, and you're like, "i wish i'd appreciated it more." stopped and smelled the corpses, you know?
anya: yeah. now everything's complicated.
spike: it's a terrible thing, love is. i been there myself.
scene direction: spike pauses
spike: it ended badly.
anya: of course it did. it always does. seen a thousand relationships. first there's the love, and sex, and then there's nothing left but the vengeance. that's how it works.
scene direction: spike smiles, leans in really close.
spike: you and i ... should just go do the vengeance. both of us! you eviscerate xander, and i'll stake dru. like a project.
scene direction: anya looks tempted.
anya: i don't know. i just can't.
scene direction: anya sighs
scene direction: spike looks resigned. he takes his arm down.
scene direction: anya encouraging
anya: you can go do dru though.
scene direction: spike nods
spike: yeah. i will.
scene direction: spike sits still for a moment
spike: maybe later.
scene direction: anya smiles. they sit together quietly.
scene direction: cut back to the party. people dancing, having fun.
scene direction: the snobby guy from "beer bad" is talking to a girl.
snob: see, the thing that they're afraid to teach us about is the inherent sensuality of language. i mean, you, you learn french and they make it all about conjugations and, uh, fronted vowels ... but nobody really talks about ... you know, the way language tastes, you know, the, the way it feels, rolling over your tongue. i mean, just think about "car" versus "voiture."
scene direction: snob leans his hand on the wall, makes a startled face
snob: oh!
scene direction: the girl looks puzzled. he stares at the wall. shot of his hand on the wall.
snob: wow.
scene direction: snob nervously chuckles
girl: are you all right?
snob: fine! i - oh!
scene direction: snob gasps. the girl looks concerned.
snob: oh my god. wow, wow.
scene direction: snob chuckle
girl: so you really like french, huh?
snob: yeah, well...
scene direction: snob satisfied smile and sigh
scene change: cut to xander walking through the crowds. he walks up to a girl, julie, who's looking at a cabinet of trophies.
scene direction: xander reading trophy inscription
xander: "lowell house. 1962."
scene direction: julie smiles.
julie: yes.
xander: um, just, you know, impressing you with my knowledge of local history. or my knowledge of reading.
scene direction: julie friendly teasing
julie: you didn't even have to sound anything out.
xander: you should see me add short columns of small numbers.
scene direction: julie laughs.
julie: you're funny.
xander: thanks. i mean ... funny "how amusing," or funny "back away and avoid eye contact"?
julie: hmm ... kinda both.
scene direction: xander nods.
julie: who are you here with?
scene direction: xander shrugs
xander: right now i seem to be here with you.
scene direction: she smiles. he smiles back.
scene change: cut to buffy approaching riley.
buffy: hey, uh, can we-
scene direction: buffy points upstairs
buffy: i, um, need you to take a look at an ... essay, for ... class.
riley: that ... essay, right. here.
scene direction: riley hands his drink to forrest. forrest looks annoyed. graham looks amused
riley: i'll catch you guys in a minute, uh, essay ... gotta look at ...
scene direction: buffy pulling riley upstairs.
scene direction: forrest and graham watch them go.
graham: and i'm*the one who got a d in covert ops.
scene direction: forrest shakes his head. they drink their beers.
scene change: cut to snob guy still talking to the girl. another guy walks by.
snob: hey, evan, evan, come here. you gotta see this.
scene direction: evan looks confused.
evan: i'm getting a beer.
snob: no, no, no, first ... just ... put your hand right ... here.
scene direction: snob points at the wall
scene direction: evan comes over
evan: okay. somehow this is a trick, i know it.
snob: here.
scene direction: snob grabs evan's hand and puts it on the wall. the girl watches with a grin
snob: now stay. don't move.
scene direction: some other people in the background watching and grinning
evan: whoa.
scene direction: evan breathing heavily
evan: what is that?
scene direction: evan the others laugh
evan: i kinda feel ...
scene direction: evan breathing heavily, gesturing with his other hand near his crotch
evan: oh my god. oh god.
scene direction: girl laughs
scene change: cut to willow and tara sitting on the stairs.
willow: horses, like big ... tall ... teeth that can take your arm off horses?
tara: well, sure. i learned to ride when i was a kid. it's fun.
scene direction: tara smiling
tara: and, by the way, most horses don't like arm very much.
scene direction: willow looks uncertain.
willow: i had a bad birthday party pony thing when i was four. i, i look at horses and i see really big ponies.
tara: you should ride with me sometime. i guarantee safety and fun.
scene direction: willow smiles.
willow: well... if you promise you'll look after me.
scene direction: puts her hand on tara's knee. tara suddenly jumps back.
tara: don't touch me!
scene direction: willow frowns in confusion.
tara: that's ... just disgusting.
scene direction: tara standing up
scene direction: willow standing
willow: tara ... what's the matter?
scene direction: tara panting
tara: i don't, i don't know.
willow: i'm sorry, i-i didn't mean to ... are-are you feeling okay?
tara: i'm f-fine, i just wanna ...
scene direction: tara pointing upstairs
tara: go to the bathroom ...
scene direction: tara runs up the stairs
scene direction: willow watches her go, concerned.
scene change: cut to spike and anya entering the party together. spike stares at a guy exiting.
spike: hey ... i know these guys from somewhere.
anya: initiative soldiers, they live here. experiments happen in the lab under the house.
scene direction: anya spike beginning to look nervous and angry
anya: it's where they kept you, put in your chip. let's have fun!
scene direction: spike angry
spike: what are you doing? you brought me here?
scene direction: xander off-screen
xander: anya? what are you doing?
scene direction: anya turns
scene direction: xander pointing at spike
xander: you brought him here?
spike: that's what i said! only i hit the "here" part.
xander: anya, this is crazy.
scene direction: anya crosses her arms, glares at him
xander: we had a little fight. it just means that we have to work our way through some stuff. it doesn't mean that we rebound with the evil undead.
scene direction: spike looks offended
xander: and what have we been doing with him anyway?
scene direction: spike grinning
spike: oh, who's the puffed-up manly man? all splotchy and possessive.
scene direction: spike walks over to xander
anya: it's not very convincing, is it?
spike: yeah. i see now what you said about him earlier.
scene direction: spike looks xander up and down
spike: no follow-through.
scene direction: xander loudly
xander: hey! what a surprise! hostile 17!
scene direction: spike trying to shut him up
xander: can i get you a drink, hostile 17?
scene direction: spike looks around anxiously to see if anyone heard.
anya: xander, stop.
scene direction: spike jumps back from some people who walk by. a bunch of guys walk past, ignoring them. spike looks around.
spike: pfft!
scene direction: spike regaining his confidence
spike: well, may be some fun to be had in the lion's den after all. you two keep scraping. i'll find the liquor.
scene direction: spike walks away
xander: anya. what are you doing with him?
scene direction: anya angry
anya: we didn't have sex, if that's what you mean. that's all i do now, not have sex.
xander: you're overreacting. we had a fight. but see, it's okay. it's normal.
anya: yes. the normal part of the ending a relationship right before the vengeance begins.
xander: right. no! vengeance?
anya: relax, i'm not gonna do it. i'm just trying to tell you that we have nothing in common besides both of us liking your penis. and now i don't even have that! so i get to say when it's done. and it's done.
xander: okay, you know what? you don't deserve to be the one to walk away from this. i've put up with a hell of a lot from you ... much of that in the last minute ... and if anyone gets to be the one to leave, it's me.
scene direction: xander starts to walk away
scene direction: anya incredulously
anya: you're leaving me?
xander: yes. i am.
anya: where are you going?
xander: to enjoy the party.
scene direction: xander walks away
scene direction: anya yells as she pushes through the crowd, moving away from him
anya: well then, then i'm staying too, to, to show you how much i'm not bothered by you having fun! because i'll be having more fun!
scene direction: xander yells across the room
xander: i'm having fun already!
scene direction: anya yells
anya: me too!
scene direction: anya unhappy face
anya: woo hoo!
scene direction: anya turns and stalks off
scene direction: xander looks frustrated, walks off in the other direction.
scene change: cut to a bunch of people cheering and laughing. xander turns a corner and discovers some people sitting on the floor playing spin the bottle.
xander: huh. sometimes i just don't get the sophisticated college lifestyle.
scene direction: he starts to leave, then notices one of the players is julie, the girl he was talking to earlier. she notices him too. she looks surprised, then smiles. she motions with her head indicating that he should join them. xander grins and comes to sit down.
xander: gee, it's a good thing mom's out. we'd be in trouble.
scene change: cut to spike sitting by the beer kegs watching other people drink (and he's drinking too). the drunk initiative guy across from him frowns.
drunk guy: hey, buddy. you look familiar.
spike: yeah. i get that a lot.
scene direction: the guy keeps frowning and looking at him. spike just sits.
scene direction: cut back to spin the bottle. xander spins, and it lands pointing at julie.
julie: hey, xander.
xander: julie!
scene direction: xander looks around nervously
xander: okay. this, then, would be the kissing.
scene direction: xander nods nervously.
scene direction: julie gets on all fours and leans toward him. he moves forward, looking around for anya, and quickly kisses her cheek.
xander: very smooth cheek you have there. do you exfoliate?
scene direction: suddenly julie grabs him and plants a passionate kiss on him. the others laugh and cheer. she climbs on top of him, still kissing.
xander: whoa!
scene direction: xander more kissing. he grabs her arms and pulls her away.
xander: julie! what?
scene direction: she suddenly looks horrified.
julie: i'm sorry. i didn't... i'm sorry!
scene direction: julie jumps up and runs off. xander looks confused, then runs after her.
scene direction: xander walks through the crowds, looking around. we hear a girl yelling "oh my god!" happily. x finds a group of people around the spot on the wall. snob's girl is touching it and going "oh, oh, oh! touch it!" she falls back against snob guy. he puts his hand on the wall. the others chatter loudly.
scene direction: xander hears crying noises from behind a closed door.
xander: hi, uh, you okay?
scene direction: xander hears more crying
xander: julie?
scene direction: xander tries the doorknob but it's locked.
scene change: cut to inside the closet. julie is crying and cutting her hair off with a straight razor or knife.
julie: i'm bad. i'm bad.
scene direction: she keeps crying and repeating "i'm bad" while chopping off pieces of hair and dropping them on the floor.
scene change: cut to willow knocking on bathroom door.
willow: tara? it's me.
scene direction: willow hears nothing. she knocks again
willow: tara?
scene direction: willow opens door
willow: tara?
scene direction: willow walks into bathroom, looks around. the camera pans through the bathroom exactly as it did with riley at the beginning of the episode.
scene direction: willow goes to the sink, turns on the water, splashes it on her face. she straightens up, drying her face with a towel. she hears a gurgling noise and turns around. frowns, walks over to the bathtub. dripping noises. willow pulls back the shower curtain and finds a young boy in the bathtub, underwater, arms crossed over his chest, struggling. she reaches down to grab him but he disappears and there's just a tub full of water.
scene direction: willow straightens up, turns around. the boy is standing behind her, dripping wet, arms still crossed over his chest. she screams.
scene change: cut to buffy and riley in bed, kissing. buffy's on top. they hear the scream and stop kissing, look toward the door.
scene direction: riley panting
riley: was that willow?
scene direction: buffy panting
buffy: i don't know.
scene direction: buffy looks at him.
buffy: doesn't matter.
scene direction: they resume smooching
scene change: cut to spin the bottle game. two people kiss while the others cheer. xander enters.
xander: hey guys, that girl julie, she's freakin' out.
scene direction: they ignore him, still playing the game.
xander: is anyone friends with julie?
scene direction: laughter, ignoring him.
scene change: cut to willow coming down the stairs.
willow: xander? tara?
scene direction: willow runs through the house. finds xander staring at the spin the bottle people.
willow: xander. ghost boy. drowning in a tub. i, i tried to save him, but, being a ghost already, well, i was way too late.
xander: a ghost?
scene direction: xander willow nods
xander: what's the deal? is every frat on this campus haunted? and if so, why do people keep coming to these parties, 'cause it's not the snacks.
scene direction: tara walks up, touches willow's arm.
willow: tara, how are you?
tara: i'm okay, but ... i, i don't like it here. this house ... i, i think we should go.
scene direction: willow nods.
scene direction: xander looks over as there's more laughter from the bottle game.
scene direction: closeup on the bottle spinning. instead of slowing down it gets faster and faster. the players look puzzled. suddenly the bottle explodes. people yell as broken glass sprays at them.
willow: we need buffy.
scene direction: willow and xander run off. tara follows.
scene direction: they run upstairs.
scene direction: xander yells
xander: buffy?
scene direction: willow yells
willow: buffy? riley?
scene direction: they pound on the door. no answer.
scene direction: suddenly, sharp-looking spiny thorns, with green leaves, sprout from the cracks around the edges of the door. willow and xander jump back.
xander: buffy!
scene direction: long shot of buffy and riley in bed, smooching and writhing. we hear panting and moaning, which echoes, and faintly we can hear xander still pounding and yelling buffy's name. the bed recedes until it's just a small square in the middle of the screen, with blackness all around.
scene change: *** commercial ***
scene direction: long shot of the bed as a tiny square in the middle of a black screen.
riley: do you wanna go back?
buffy: never.
scene change: cut to xander still pounding on the door.
willow: buffy! riley!
xander: buffy!
scene direction: tara turns and looks behind them
xander: we gotta get them outta there.
scene direction: tara starts to walk away while willow and xander stare at the writhing thorns still growing from under the door.
scene direction: tara walks to the balcony and looks down on the main floor. the people are looking around as the building starts to shake. people scream and run around. glass rattling, everything shaking. the people scream and run toward the door. suddenly there's a strong tremor and everyone falls onto the floor including tara, willow and xander. people get up and run around.
scene direction: shot of spike sitting calmly in his chair as people run around panicking. spike smiles.
spike: well, this party's starting to liven up after all.
scene direction: suddenly straps shoot out of the chair he's sitting in, wrapping around his chest, wrists, legs, and one over his mouth. he drops his plastic cup of beer.
spike: mmph!
scene direction: shot of graham standing still, looking grim, as people run screaming past him. forrest runs toward him, against the flow of people.
forrest: graham, quit standing around! help get these people to safety!
graham: touch not the impure thing...
forrest: what?!
graham: or ye shall perish. find salvation in the cross of our lord and savior.
forrest: right.
scene direction: forrest goes to the wall and flips a switch. grabs graham and turns him to face the wall as the green scanner light travels across their faces.
computer voice: retinal scan accepted.
scene direction: elevator opens. forrest gets in, looks back at graham, who just stands there. forrest grabs him and pulls him into the elevator. the door closes.
scene direction: the building is still shaking. people running and screaming. shot of anya in the midst of them. the shaking stops. anya looks around, panting. suddenly she sees a girl screaming and waving her arms, running toward her. the girl runs right to anya and through her. anya gasps and puts her hands on her stomach. looks behind her but the girl has disappeared. anya looks around. the shaking begins again.
scene change: cut to the bottom of the stairs. willow, xander and tara coming down. anya runs over to them.
xander: anya. we gotta get out of here. come on!
scene direction: books start flying off the shelves and attacking them. they all duck and run away.
scene direction: shot of spike struggling, managing to pull the restraints off himself. jumps out of the chair and runs off.
scene direction: the gang and a few others running toward the door and out. xander looks back and sees julie, bald, staggering toward him.
julie: please help me.
scene direction: xander runs over and grabs her, helps her toward the door. there are patchy clumps of hair still on her head but she's mostly bald.
scene change: cut to the initiative labs -- people working on computers. forrest and graham enter. they go over to a scientist who's on the phone.
forrest: we got trouble upstairs.
scene direction: scientist motions them to wait.
scene direction: scientist into phone
scientist: now.
scene direction: scientist hangs up, starts to walk away. forrest and graham follow.
forrest: some sort of disembodied presence in the house.
scientist: we've been paging you.
forrest: whatever this thing's outputting, it must be scrambling all the frequencies.
scientist: guard section 2, level 5 precautions. if the cell door locking mechanisms malfunction ... you know what to do.
forrest: got it.
scene direction: scientist walks off. forrest looks at graham.
forrest: you with me?
graham: i'm good.
forrest: let's lock it down.
scene direction: they walk off.
scene change: cut to exterior of lowell house. xander helps julie out. tara, willow, spike, and anya are there. julie immediately runs off. spike takes out a cigarette and lights it.
willow: we have to go back in there.
anya: why?
xander: because buffy and riley are trapped.
anya: so?
scene direction: willow and tara look surprised
anya: she's the slayer, he's a big soldier boy, what do they need you for?
xander: anya, look around! there's ghosts and shaking, and people are going all felicity with their hair... we're fresh out of super-people, and somebody's gotta go back in there.
scene direction: xander takes deep breath
xander: now who's with me?
scene direction: willow and tara hesitate.
spike: i am.
scene direction: everyone looks at spike in surprise.
spike: i know i'm not the first choice for heroics ...
scene direction: spike drops his cigarette and grinds it out with his foot
spike: and buffy's tried to kill me more than once. and, i don't fancy a single one of you at all. but...
scene direction: spike pauses
spike: actually, all that sounds pretty convincing.
scene direction: spike frowns, shakes his head and walks away.
spike: i wonder if danger mouse is on.
anya: xander, let's get out of here.
xander: you wanna bail, fine.
scene direction: xander points into house
xander: i'm going back in there, and i'm not coming out till i bring my friend with me.
scene direction: he walks to the door, opens it, peeks inside. takes a few steps in, then something invisible pushes him out. he flies backward and lands several yards down the path. groans and makes a pained face. shot of anya looking upset.
xander: or ... it ... could be watcher time.
willow: we'll, we'll go to giles'.
tara: no, no, wait, he, he isn't there. he was going to the espresso pump.
willow: right, he-he told us not to come. he, he needed some grownup time.
scene direction: they hurry off.
scene change: cut to giles in the coffee bar, playing a guitar. he's wearing casual clothes and has an earring in his left ear. lots of people are sitting and watching/listening.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: no one knows what it's like / to be the bad man / to be the sad man / behind blue eyes / no one knows what it's like / to be hated...
scene direction: shot of anya, willow, xander and tara watching, amazed. willow's and anya's mouths hanging open.
anya: oh.
willow: wow.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: to be fated...
xander: um, could we go back to the haunted house? cause, this is creeping me out.
tara: does he do this a lot?
xander: sure. every day the earth rotates backward and the skies turn orange.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: but my dreams, they are as empty, as my conscience...
scene direction: giles notices the kids watching, looks embarrassed but keeps singing
giles: seems to be...
scene direction: willow smiles.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: i have hours, only lonely...
willow: now i remember why i used to have such a crush on him.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: ...my love is vengeance...
tara: well, he *is* pretty good.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: ...that's never free-ee...
scene direction: anya agreeing
anya: his voice ... is pleasant.
scene direction: all three girls are riveted.
xander: what?!
scene direction: giles sings
giles: no one knows what it's like...
scene direction: giles makes unintelligible sounds
willow: oh, come on, he is kinda sexy.
scene direction: giles (sings) like i do...
xander: i'm fighting total mental breakdown here, will. no more fueling the fire please.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: and i blame you...
scene direction: the song trails off as we cut back to lowell house, now deserted, wreckage everywhere. the camera pans across the room and up the stairs to riley's door, just like before, only now the vines cover the entire door and much of the ceiling and floor nearby. muffled howling and screeching noises.
scene change: cut to buffy and riley in bed. they let go of each other and lie side by side, panting.
buffy: you're, you're too far away from me.
riley: i'm right here.
scene direction: buffy panting
buffy: you ... have to ... keep touching me...
scene direction: buffy rolls over and starts kissing him again. moaning, panting
scene change: cut to the college library. giles pacing while the others sit at a table.
giles: when you called to buffy and riley, they didn't cry out or, or respond in any way?
scene direction: anya bored
anya: no. they're probably dead.
xander: unless they're too busy doin' it to answer.
giles: doing what?
scene direction: giles sits at the table across from xander
xander: you know, for a god of acoustic rock, you're ... kind of naive.
scene direction: giles rolls his eyes
giles: i didn't think you meant ... in the midst of all that, do you really think they were keeping it up?
scene direction: everyone looks at him.
giles: oh, for a different phrasing.
willow: well, see, that's the thing. people all over the party were starting to act ... weird.
scene direction: willow quietly
willow: sexually.
giles: in what way?
willow: you know.
scene direction: willow embarrassed
willow: ways.
scene direction: willow looking through an old book
giles: well, it could be some form of, uh, succubi, or a satyr's prank. it could even be energy coming from the, the lab underneath the lowell fraternity.
willow: it wasn't always a fraternity, look!
scene direction: they all come to look at her book.
scene direction: willow reading
willow: "between 1949 and 1960, the lowell home for children housed upwards of 40 adolescents: runaways, juvenile delinquents, and emotionally disturbed teenagers from the sunnydale area."
tara: children? did any of them, um, die in there?
giles: if there were deaths, then, uh, perhaps we're dealing with a fairly ... standard haunting.
willow: it doesn't say. it's mostly about the old house director, genevieve holt. "sunnydale children's aid. 30 years of community service. giving disadvantaged kids the love and care they deserve."
giles: when did she die?
scene direction: willow looks at book, looks up at giles
willow: she didn't.
scene change: cut to old lady's house. she opens a pair of french doors and ushers in giles, xander, and anya.
mrs. holt: no, no, i don't mind at all. i was up. early morning prayer.
giles: of course.
mrs. holt: and i like talking about my kids.
scene direction: mrs. holt sits in chair
scene direction: xander and anya looking around the room
mrs. holt: i still call them that. my kids.
giles: i, i suppose you were like a mother to them.
scene direction: giles sits on sofa
giles: you did everything for them?
mrs. holt: oh yes. i fed them clothed them, educated them in the way of the lord. i was given a medal.
scene direction: xander and anya sit on sofa beside giles
giles: yes, wonderful. uh, congratulations. um, this'll sound a little strange, but, ah, did you notice any odd... disturbances in the house?
scene direction: mrs. holt frowns
mrs. holt: i don't understand.
giles: we-well, um, like uh, furniture moving of its own accord, or, uh, objects appearing out of nowhere, or, or perhaps you saw someone appear one moment, and then they were gone the next, i-inexplicably.
mrs. holt: why, that sounds like crazy talk.
giles: yes, it does, doesn't it? yes. um...
scene direction: giles looks at xander and anya
giles: well, forgive me for, for asking this, but um, the children in your care, were any of them ever ill, or did anything ever happen to any of them?
mrs. holt: well, some had the flu and such. no one died, if that's what you mean. the engraving on the medal says how good i was with the children.
scene direction: mrs. holt smiles
scene direction: giles smiles
giles: oh, yes.
mrs. holt: i treated them as i would my own flesh and blood. gave them hugs and praise when they were good, and ... punished them when they were dirty.
giles: well, ah, children will be children. they, you know, they do like to play in the, uh, the muck.
scene direction: giles smiling
scene direction: mrs. holt looks disapproving.
anya: you didn't mean mud dirty.
mrs. holt: my kids didn't think i knew, but i did.
scene direction: giles starting to understand
giles: very, uh, perceptive of you.
mrs. holt: without me they would have been shut out of the kingdom. lost to lust.
giles: but you ... helped them.
mrs. holt: the girls felt the vanity more than the boys. i'd see them preening like jezebel. doting over their pretty hair.
xander: so you'd hack it off.
mrs. holt: i'd remove the temptation to admire themselves.
scene direction: giles removes his glasses
mrs. holt: they were better for it.
anya: what about the bathtub? something happened there.
mrs. holt: i performed baptisms on the most unclean. those who were tainted with impure thought and deed.
giles: you held them under?
mrs. holt: they needed to be reborn.
scene direction: mrs. holt rises
mrs. holt: you choose to pass judgment on me?
scene direction: giles rises
giles: well, someone ought to! you traumatized and,
scene direction: giles she waves her hand dismissively
giles: and abused these children, children who, who have no doubt become extremely disturbed adults!
scene direction: she starts to walk away; he pursues her
giles: you have ruined lives, mrs. holt. furthermore, what you did has now manifested itself as a, a malevolent presence which threatens still more lives! you have a great deal to answer for.
mrs. holt: i refuse to listen to this when i can smell the sin on each and every one of you.
scene direction: mrs. holt points to them all
xander: yeah? you smell sin? well let me tell you something, lady, she who smelt it dealt it!
scene direction: giles looks at him.
xander: it's like what you said, but faster.
scene change: cut to the three of them leaving her apartment.
xander: well, that totally adds to my "old people are crazy" theorem.
anya: i don't get it. i mean, those kids were tortured, but they weren't killed, so where are those ghosts coming from?
giles: i don't believe there are any ghosts.
anya: one ran right through me.
giles: not a ghost. an apparition. i believe we're dealing with a kind of poltergeist. a whole cluster of them, in fact, born out of intense adolescent emotion and sexual energy.
anya: both of which were totally pent-up during mrs. holt's reign of repression.
xander: so with buffy and riley having ... you know, acts of nakedness around the clock lately, maybe they set something free. like a ... big burstin' poltergasm.
giles: yes. and now the poltergeists are drawing more and more energy out of them. feeding on them in fact. buffy and riley are, are powering this whole thing.
xander: okay, they're the battery in the boo factory, so what happens when the battery's drained?
scene change: cut to buffy and riley in bed. blurry slow-motion kissing.
giles voiceover: they die.
scene change: *** commercial ***
scene direction: buffy and riley in bed. blurry slow-motion kissing. panting, moaning. riley pulls away, lies back.
buffy: don't stop. never stop touching me.
scene direction: she turns his face toward her and they kiss again.
scene change: cut to tara spreading a red cloth on a table, then sitting in a chair . willow brings candles and sets them on the table, sits down. we see giles sitting on the floor. they're in willow and buffy's dorm room.
anya: what good are weapons against disembodied spirits, xander? they have no ass to kick.
scene direction: we see xander rummaging in buffy's weapon chest.
giles: she's right.
scene direction: giles gets up, holding a book
giles: you should just stay outside.
willow: we'll bind the spirits long enough for you to get riley and buffy out.
xander: how much time will you buy us?
tara: could be tricky, we're calling upon the communal spirit of a certain time and place.
scene direction: willow lighting candles. xander takes out weapons, hands one to anya, holds a machete.
xander: let's go.
scene direction: anya looks at the sword he gave her, and follows him.
scene change: cut to xander outside the lowell house. he sighs.
xander: what do you feel?
scene direction: anya pressed against the window
anya: sad, afraid of being without you, and a little hungry.
xander: i meant about the house.
anya: oh. still haunted.
scene change: cut to the dorm room.
tara: give me your hands. form a circle.
scene direction: she and willow and giles hold hands, eyes closed.
tara: children of the past, spirits of lowell, be guided by our light. come forth and be known to us.
giles: ho-how will we know when it works?
scene direction: a noise. they all open their eyes and see a bunch of ghostly children standing around them.
tara: we'll know.
scene direction: they look around nervously.
scene change: cut to exterior of house. the door swings open. xander and anya look in nervously. xander steps forward, looks in.
xander: house is clean.
anya: let's go. you first.
scene direction: xander takes a breath, walks in. anya follows. they look up. the entire staircase is covered in the leafy, spiny vines.
xander: we need to work fast. never know how long before the munchkins get homesick.
anya: or the human battery conks out.
scene direction: they start walking up the stairs, through the vines.
xander: watch your fingers.
scene direction: he starts hacking at the vines with his machete.
tara: we implore you ... be still.
scene direction: ghost children watching silently
giles: find it in your hearts to leave our friends passage.
willow: transform your pain. release your past. and ... uh ... get over it.
scene direction: giles looks at her, nervous. willow shrugs.
scene direction: cut back to lowell house. xander is ahead of anya, hacking at vines.
xander: you okay?
scene direction: anya looks angry, hacking at a vine.
scene direction: xander makes it to riley's door, tries to reach for the knob. a sudden wind comes up.
scene change: cut to dorm room. the wind blows willow's hair around. the children look up. their hair is blowing too. the wind howls loudly. screeching noises.
scene direction: tara yelling
tara: find here the serenity you seek, the peace you -
scene direction: the red-covered table flies out from under their hands and crashes against the door. the wind stops. they look around.
giles: what's happened?
tara: we lost them.
willow: xander.
scene change: cut to lowell house. the howling and wind continue. xander is suddenly thrown back from the door, landing on his back.
anya: xander!
scene direction: the vines grab xander, throw him into the bathroom and shut the door.
anya: xander!
scene direction: anya runs to the door and grabs the knob. she is thrown back, through the balcony railing and down to the floor below. lands half on the floor, half on a sofa.
scene change: cut to xander in the bathtub, being held underwater by unseen hands, struggling. through the water he can see the children standing over him, watching. he can't breathe.
scene change: cut to anya getting painfully to her feet, looking determined. starts up the stairs. howling and screeching noises continue.
anya: shut up, repressed crybabies!
scene direction: a huge thorn suddenly sprouts from the vine her hand is resting on. the thorn goes right through the middle of her hand. she screams.
anya: ow!
scene direction: pulls the thorn out, looking even madder. continues up the stairs.
scene change: cut to xander still struggling. through the water he sees anya reaching for him. she pulls him out of the water and helps him up.
scene direction: they burst out of the bathroom into the hall. there are more vines everywhere.
xander: come on, we just gotta-
scene direction: a vine knocks him down.
anya: xander!
scene direction: anya helps him up and they continue fighting their way through the vines.
anya: we can make it through this.
scene direction: the push on cautiously. a bunch of vines wrap around anya.
anya: xander, get it off!
scene direction: he unwraps her. they clutch each other, make their way to the door. twist the knob and push the door open.
scene direction: shot of the bed seen from far away, as before, suddenly rushing closer and closer.
scene direction: the howling noises stop.
scene direction: shot of xander and anya framed in the doorway.
scene direction: buffy and riley in bed, naked. the light from the doorway illuminates them. they sit up, clutching the sheets against themselves.
buffy: xander! don't you knock?
scene direction: shot of xander and anya looking disheveled. they look at each other, turn and walk away.
riley voiceover: i can't believe it really happened.
scene change: cut to cafeteria the next day.
buffy: i just had no idea. it's so creepy!
scene direction: buffy looks up at the others
buffy: he was really singing?
scene direction: willow nods.
xander: i'd say it was more like crooning.
scene direction: xander to anya
xander: if we grow old together, remind me to skip the midlife crisis.
scene direction: xander puts his hand on her knee.
scene direction: anya smiling, softly
anya: okay.
scene direction: anya they look affectionately at each other.
willow: come on, you have to admit, it was kinda sexy.
xander: please stop saying that. i'm willing to offer cash incentives.
riley: we're just lucky no one got injured.
scene direction: riley looking at buffy
riley: no thanks to us.
willow: don't be too hard on yourself.
buffy: he's right, will. if riley and i hadn't ... gotten so wrapped up in each other, none of this would've happened.
anya: true. feel shame.
scene direction: riley looks like he is doing just that.
xander: my girlfriend. mistress of the learning plateau.
willow: really, it wasn't your fault. you were under the influence of powerful magicks.
buffy: we were like zombies. i had no control over myself at all.
willow: must have been horrible.
scene direction: buffy looks sidelong at riley.
scene direction: riley looks at her, looks down.
buffy: yeah. horrible.
scene direction: they both nod firmly.
riley: uh-huh.
buffy: mm-hmm.
riley: it was bad.
scene direction: end.
