scene change: *** prologue ***
scene direction: fade-in to giles' apartment same as at the end of "the 'i' in team." buffy is pacing, giles is standing close by, willow is sitting at his desk, spike is sitting on the bottom steps of the stairs, and anya and xander are sitting on giles' weapons trunk against the wall. buffy is in the middle of telling them what just happened.
buffy: so maggie sends me down into the sewers with one of those blasto-guns. and the next thing i know, it's raining monsters.
scene direction: xander without humor
xander: hallelujah.
buffy: and then this gate slams down behind me and i try to use the gun but it goes "phitt!" giles: you're saying that maggie walsh set you up?
buffy: that's exactly what i'm saying. she sent me on a way-one recon.
spike: gotta hand it to you, goldilocks. you do have bleeding, tragic taste in men. i got a cousin married to a regurgitating frovalox demon that's got better instincts than you.
scene direction: buffy glaring at him
buffy: what does my taste in men have to do with this?
spike: do you think riley was out knitting booties for your future off-spring while maggie was stringing you up?
scene direction: buffy looks at everyone else's expressions. they don't say anything, but she can see from their faces . . .
buffy: you guys think riley had something to do with this?
giles: probably not. but, uh . . . we'd be remiss if we didn't think of all the possibilities.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: right. "remiss".
scene direction: she's turning away, then suddenly faces him again.
buffy: no. no. maggie made sure he was no where around when she sent me on this very special "make buffy dead" assignment.
willow: and plus, riley? he seems like he wouldn't tell a little white lie, let alone a whole bunch of big, dirty ones.
xander: that's why they call it the "secret forces," will. 'cause they kinda keep the whole lying thing to themselves.
buffy: all i know is that maggie has it in for me. which means the initiative has it in for me.
xander: i'm guessing the mad scientist isn't too keen on the fact that the entire scooby gang knows that the initiative is up to no good.
buffy: which brings us back to the "not safe for any of us" concept.
giles: what could have happened to make professor walsh want to kill you?
scene direction: buffy at a loss
buffy: i don't know. uh . . . she wasn't keen on the fact that i was asking a lot of questions, that's for sure.
anya: so you were getting too close to something?
giles: clearly. although, one can only imagine what she'd be so desperate to hide.
scene change: cut to deep in the woods. all is quiet with the peaceful sounds of birds and other forest noises. pan to a concrete access tunnel just visible from the side of the hill. it doesn't look as if it's been used for sometime as the metal doors screech as they are opened from the inside. close up on a pair of army boots walking down the steps from the entrance. as the shot pans up see legs clad in camouflage commando pants and the left leg is in a metal brace (jointed at the knee) from ankle to mid-thigh. he's not wearing a shirt, and his flesh is a jigsaw of different skin types and there is an electronic metal plate over the left side of his chest. his face is mostly green except for the patch of pale human flesh around his right blue eye and ear. his left eye is a demonic red color. his short hair is a normal brown, but there is a metal plating that frames the left green side of his face and wraps around to the back of his head.
scene direction: outside for the first time, adam looks at his surroundings.
scene direction: wolf's howl. buffy theme and credits roll.
scene change: *** part one ***
scene direction: fade in to giles' apartment. buffy has giles' trunk opened and is taking out weapons.
buffy: okay, everybody grab a weapon. we gotta move.
scene direction: she hands xander a battle ax and gives anya a bat with a fisherman's hook attached to the head.
xander: and storm the initiative?
scene direction: xander bravado
xander: yeah, let's take on those suckers!
buffy: i was thinking more that we'd hide.
scene direction: xander relieved
xander: oh, thank god.
giles: buffy, i think perhaps we should talk about this.
buffy: we need to relocate some place where we're less likely to be found. we need to come up with a plan.
willow: we could go to my place.
scene direction: willow she is holding a wicked looking flail
buffy: the initiative guys know how close we are. they'll automatically check the places you hang out. xander, what about your basement. the guys haven't seen us together that much and there's enough room.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: oh, plus: mirror ball.
xander: cool! come on down and boogie at xander's hideaway.
scene direction: anya not happy
anya: yes. come boogie.
giles: absolutely not. i will not squat in that dank whole.
spike: what? it was good enough for me but you're above it all?
giles: precisely.
scene direction: giles sits down at his desk
giles: besides, i don't see why we can't stay right where we are.
scene direction: giles chuckles
giles: because it's very unlikely those initiative boys are gonna come around here looking for-- the front door opens and riley steps inside.
riley: buffy!
scene direction: everybody looks at him in surprise. riley closes the door and rushes over to buffy.
riley: god, buffy. are you okay? what happened?
scene direction: buffy a beat
buffy: you know?
riley: i know something went down.
scene direction: riley pause
riley: tell me.
buffy: maggie tried to kill me.
scene direction: no one says anything for a moment.
scene direction: anya helpfully
anya: it didn't work, but they're all upset anyway.
riley: okay, listen. i need you to go over everything. step by step. there has-- has to be some kind of mistake.
xander: there was no mistake! and how do you know something happened?
riley: i was on a mission. but i came back and . . . i'm not sure. look, let's just keep our heads and not jump to any--.
scene direction: he looks over his shoulder and sees spike sitting on the stairs.
scene direction: spike looks away. riley takes a step back in surprise as he faces the vampire.
buffy: what?
riley: that's hostile 17.
spike: uh, no! i'm
scene direction: spike bad american accent
spike: just a friend of xanderrr's--
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: bugger it. i'm your guy.
buffy: this is spike. he's, uh . . . it's a really long story. but he's not bad anymore.
spike: hey!
scene direction: spike stands
spike: what i am, a bleeding broken record? i'm bad! it's just . . . i can't bite anymore. thanks to you wankers.
scene direction: riley exasperated
riley: we've been looking all over the place for him but you've known where he's been all along?
buffy: it's not like that.
riley: then what is it like? what's he doing here?
spike: leaving you swabs to your dramatics. thanks.
scene direction: he walks over to the door and grabs his leather duster.
scene direction: spike putting it on
spike: i've got my stories on the telly for that. by the by, if you're trying to kill her . . .
scene direction: spike gives riley two very enthusiastic thumbs up. buffy rolls her eyes. he turns and pulls his coat over his head. he opens the door and runs outside.
riley: buffy . . . what is this? you're hiding an hst?
xander: why don't you just back off and let her ask the questions, jack? your boss just tried to make monster food out of her.
scene direction: riley sees everyone looking at him and calms down.
riley: i-i didn't see much. i wasn't there. i . . . all i know is professor walsh told me you were dead. but then i saw you on the monitors . . . look this isn't professor walsh-- there must be something making her act this way. something i-- i don't know. controlling her.
giles: we think buffy may have been becoming too in inquisitive. that she was getting close to something that professor walsh was trying to hide. any idea what that might be?
buffy: what about 314? maybe that's it?
riley: maybe she was trying to test you. what if it was only a drill?
buffy: then why did she tell you i was dead? riley, it wasn't a test.
giles: see, i've heard rumors that the initiative wasn't all that we've been told. that, uh, secretly they're working towards some darker purpose. something that might harm us all--.
riley: no! that's . . . that's not what happens there.
buffy: riley.
riley: i would know!
buffy: look, no one is sure of anything. okay? we're just trying to sort it out.
riley: i can't be here. i'll sort it out on my own.
scene direction: riley heads for the door
scene direction: buffy going after him
buffy: riley.
riley: no! just-- i'm sorry.
scene direction: he opens the door and is gone.
scene change: cut to the woods again. close up of a small boy sitting next to his bike. he is playing with a cyborg, soldier action figure. on the rise behind him, the back of a house can be seen not far away but it appears as if he's the only one outside right now. until adam sees the him. despite his size, the boy doesn't notice adam until he is standing just a few feet away. the boy looks up and smiles with a "cool!" expression on his face.
adam: what am i?
scene direction: boy standing
boy: you're a monster.
scene direction: adam nodding
adam: i thought so. what are you?
boy: me? i'm a boy.
scene direction: adam curious
adam: a boy. how do you work?
boy: i don't know, i just do.
scene direction: the boy sees something and points.
boy: what's that for?
scene direction: adam looks down and raises his polgara left arm where just the sharp tip of the bone skewer (sheathed inside the forearm) is visible under his wrist. adam looks at the boy and a "let me show you" smile slowly spreads across his grotesque face.
scene change: cut to uc sunnydale at night. riley is walking across campus without a clear destination. brooding.
scene change: cut to the initiative. lab 314. dr. angleman opens the door to the dark lab and flips the light switch. the lights stay off and he flips it on and off a couple times, but they remain off.
angleman: dr. walsh?
scene direction: angleman worried whisper
angleman: adam?
scene direction: slowly, he starts walking across the lab but his feet slip out from under him and he falls to the floor. he's pushing himself up when he notices something wet on his hands. he sees they're covered with blood, then notices the trail of blood leading to the body of professor walsh lying face down on the floor.
scene direction: angleman freaks, scrambles to his feet, and runs out of the lab.
scene change: cut to xander's basement. it is morning. close up of the disco mirror ball hanging from the ceiling. cut to giles lying on an inflated beach chair. he's waking up and squints his eyes against the dots of light the mirror ball is shining in his face. he rubs a hand on his forehead. obviously a good night's sleep he didn't get.
scene direction: sounds of the road runner can be heard as the camera pans the basement. there is an empty sleeping bag on the floor next to giles.
scene direction: two blankets hanging from the clothesline divides the basement in half. on the other half see willow, anya, and buffy (in that order) still under the covers in the fold-out bed watching tv, where the self-proclaimed wile e. coyote is killing himself again with another one of his shoddy acme traps that backfires on him. willow finds this funny.
scene direction: buffy unmoved
buffy: that would never happen.
willow: well, no, buff. that's why they call them cartoons not documentaries.
scene direction: giles steps through the draped blankets and shuts off the tv.
giles: must we have the noise? my head is splitting.
scene direction: he's returning to the other side of the basement.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: well, look who's cranky bear in the morning.
giles: yes. i can't imagine why i didn't sleep well in my beach ball.
anya: every time you moved it made squeaky noises. it was irritating.
giles: really? i'm surprised you could hear it over your wagnerian snoring.
buffy: okay, you guys, could we not, please. everything's screwed up enough without you two doing scenes from my parents' marriage.
scene direction: anya a beat
anya: sorry.
giles: sorry.
buffy: thank you.
scene direction: giles disappears through the blankets.
willow: it'll be okay, buffy. riley's just confused, that's all.
buffy: i don't know. it just seems like things can get heavier. his whole world's falling apart.
anya: and after everything you've been through with angel. you know, you really should get yourself a boring boyfriend.
scene direction: anya smiles
anya: like xander.
scene direction: anya then
anya: you can't have xander.
buffy: that was the idea. riley was supposed to be mr. joe guy. we were gonna do dumb things like hold hands through the daisies going "tra la la".
willow: poor buffy. your life resists all things average.
anya: so dump him!
scene direction: anya sternly
anya: but you can't have xander.
buffy: i'll try and remember that.
scene direction: buffy pause
buffy: it's too late, anyway. i'm already at the "i hurt when he hurts. i smile when he smiles" stage.
scene direction: anya whispers
anya: i hate that part.
buffy: i'll just have to make it work.
scene direction: xander hurries down the stairs into the basement, carrying a breakfast tray.
xander: turn on the tv. now!
scene direction: willow gets up to switch the tv back on. the news is on.
newswoman: sunnydale is still reeling from news of the crime.
scene direction: giles peeks out from the blankets brushing his teeth.
newswoman: a source in the coroner's office tells us that the boy was stabbed with what looks like some kind of large skewer. and his body was then mutilated. police have not named a suspect and the killer is still at large.
scene direction: realization fills buffy's expression as she listens.
buffy: the polgara demon had a skewer in its arm. that's the one maggie insisted we bring back alive.
scene direction: giles mouthful of toothpaste
giles: she must have sent it after you.
buffy: and it got distracted.
scene direction: buffy looks away
buffy: god.
willow: buffy, it's not your fault. how could you know?
giles: she's right. you mustn't blame yourself.
scene direction: buffy a beat
buffy: i'm not going to.
scene direction: as she gets out of bed, cue "bad-ass" chris beck score. she faces them with a determined expression.
buffy: i'm going to the crime scene to see what i can find out. you guys research the polgara demon. i want to know where it is. when i find it, i am going to make him pay for taking that kid's life. i'll make him die in ways he can't even imagine.
scene direction: bad-ass score dies and everyone just looks at her, seemingly, unmoved by her passionate speech. buffy notices their looks and glances down at the weird pattern on her pajamas.
buffy: that probably would have sounded more commanding if i wasn't wearing my yummy sushi pajamas.
scene change: cut to lowell house. riley has just walked in and is heading for his room. forrest gates spots him and catches up with him on the stairs.
forrest: hey! where you been all night?
scene direction: riley doesn't answer.
scene direction: forrest smiles
forrest: well. congratulations. i see you and buffy have finally gotten past the shy phase.
scene direction: forrest raises a fist for riley to knuckle but riley leaves him hanging. he's still in brooding mode.
riley: i wasn't with buffy. i needed to be alone. think some things through.
forrest: what things?
scene direction: in the hall now, riley turns to face him. then reconsiders and motions him to follow him into his room.
scene direction: forrest stepping inside
forrest: this is mighty ominous. what's up, man?
riley: professor walsh tried to have buffy killed.
forrest: what? did buffy tell you that? i mean, do you have any proof?
riley: i saw enough to know it's true.
forrest: i don't get it. why?
riley: i don't know.
scene direction: riley paces across the room
riley: buffy thinks that she's getting too close to something. that professor walsh has some secret.
forrest: i wouldn't put it past buffy to get on professor walsh's bad side. she tends to put her nose where it doesn't belong.
riley: what?
scene direction: forrest angry
forrest: she's a pain. always wanting to know "why this?" and "why that?".
scene direction: riley exasperated
riley: and you're saying she should die because of that?
forrest: i don't know. maybe professor walsh found out that buffy was up to something bad. that ever cross your mind?
riley: why does it bug you so much that i'm hanging with her? is it because she's a better soldier than you?
forrest: it bugs me that she's using you to infiltrate our operations.
scene direction: riley raising voice
riley: so you're saying she's a spy? you're crazy!
scene direction: riley turns away
forrest: riley, think about it. the professor is not stupid. if she tried to kill buffy, maybe buffy needed killing.
scene direction: behind forrest, the door opens and graham miller steps inside.
graham: guys.
riley: not now, graham.
scene direction: graham's usually calm, stoic face seems a bit forced.
forrest: what is it?
scene direction: graham deep breath
graham: professor walsh is dead.
scene direction: forrest takes this news and looks at riley. off riley's shocked expression, fade to commercial.
scene change: *** part two ***
scene direction: fade in on the initiative. riley rounds a corner quickly and pushes his way to the open door of lab 314. he sees professor walsh lying on the floor while two other scientists are looking over her body.
scene direction: forrest steps up besides him and sees this and has to look away for a moment.
scene direction: forrest steely
forrest: look at that wound. she's been staked, wouldn't you say, brother?
riley: what?
forrest: only one person i can think of who could do something like that.
scene direction: riley warning tone
riley: you better not be saying what i think you're saying.
scene direction: riley steps out into the corridor. forrest follows him and riley faces him.
riley: we-we don't know that a person did this. the polgara demon has a skewer that comes right out of--.
scene direction: forrest angrily
forrest: no way! that's your girlfriend's mo!
scene direction: riley grabs a fistful of forrest's shirt
riley: hey, that's a serious accusation! you better be ready to deal with the consequences.
scene direction: forrest shoves riley back
forrest: then bring 'em on! that supernatural freak has blinded you and i'm sick of it!
scene direction: riley advancing
riley: that's enough!
scene direction: angleman steps in between them.
angleman: stand back! show some respect! listen, everybody's upset. but arguing isn't going to help anything. and it's certainly not what professor walsh would want.
scene direction: riley and forrest keep "i'm gonna kick your ass" eye contact for a few more seconds then break off.
riley: no, sir.
scene direction: riley takes a couple of steps back
angleman: all right. good. now washington is sending in a team to do an internal investigation. i've been told we have to wait for their word.
riley: what do you mean "wait?" this has to be the work of the polgara demon we captured last week!
angleman: probably. looks like, last night, the polgara escaped through tunnel seventy-two.
riley: it's out loose somewhere?!
angleman: i'm afraid so.
riley: then we have to go after it.
scene direction: riley starts to walk off but angleman stops him.
angleman: my orders from washington are for a total lock-down until they arrive. i'm sorry. now, return to your quarters. there's nothing you can do here.
scene direction: riley is silent then nods. satisfied, angleman walks off. when he disappears around the corner riley turns to graham and a few other commandos standing nearby.
riley: listen. angleman can talk all he wants, but i'm still in charge until the brass gets here and tells me otherwise. i say we got a demon to hunt.
scene direction: riley absently scratches the back of his right hand
riley: now suit up for armed patrol. and by that i mean loaded guns, man. target practice is over. we're going for blood.
scene direction: they head off to follow their orders. forrest looks at riley but doesn't say anything as he walks past him to follow the others. riley glances once more into the lab before following as well.
scene change: cut to cemetery. daylight. two humvees pull up and commandos, fully armed, start storming the mausoleums. forrest and graham head toward a mausoleum.
scene change: cut to interior of spike's place. don't see him inside and forrest and graham enter, rifles ready.
forrest: somebody's been staying here.
graham: what do think, a homeless guy?
scene direction: forrest moving deeper into the chamber
forrest: could be. or a squatter of the demon variety.
graham: but not the polgara.
scene direction: forrest faces him
forrest: who cares!? i see a demon, it dies.
scene direction: there is a tv set up on a stone bench. graham puts a palm on top of it.
graham: it's warm.
scene direction: forrest glances at the sarcophagus and he and graham move to either end, slinging their rifles. together they raise the stone lid and lean it against the side. inside they see an old decayed skeleton with its arms folded over its chest, covered in an old blanket.
scene direction: unslinging there rifles they head for the door again.
forrest: damn.
scene direction: forrest is passing the tv and he shatters the screen with the stock of his rifle.
forrest: animals.
scene direction: hear them leave and cut to a close up of inside the sarcophagus.
scene direction: the blanket is folded up and we see spike's head poke out from between the skeleton's feet. he sits up, the skeleton's knees draping over his shoulders, and sighs in relief.
scene change: cut to the dry hills on the outskirts of sunnydale. buffy is walking down a dirt road. behind her, up the road, a police car is parked.
scene direction: below and ahead of her, she sees the crime scene. another police car is parked and a detective is talking with a uniformed cop as two coroner's people carry a gurney with a small zipped bodybag on it under the crime scene tape.
riley: buffy.
scene direction: she turns and sees riley walking down the road towards her. he's in full commando attire. he's scratching the back of his right hand again.
riley: hey.
buffy: hey. look, i'm sorry about earlier. i know everyone came on pretty strong. and the spike thing isn't as tweaked as it looked. okay, maybe it is. but there's an explanation that almost makes sense.
scene direction: buffy sees that he's looking off to the hills
buffy: hello? i'm apologizing here. and i think that's pretty big of me, considering i'm the one who was almost made a demon sandwich.
scene direction: he doesn't say anything.
buffy: this is the part where you throw me a bone.
riley: maggie's dead.
scene direction: buffy absorbs this news. but before she can say anything--.
riley: happy now?
scene direction: buffy eyes narrowing
buffy: how can you ask me that? of course i'm not happy. what happened?
scene direction: riley coldly
riley: that's classified.
buffy: classifi--
scene direction: buffy realizes
buffy: the polgara. it got her and escaped. didn't it?
scene direction: riley just nods.
buffy: i'm gonna find it. i'm gonna find it and destroy it.
scene direction: buffy angry
buffy: and then you can stop asking me how happy all this death makes me!
scene direction: she steps around him and marches quickly back up the road. riley turns as if to say something, but doesn't. sighing, he faces the crime scene again.
scene change: cut to someone knocking on a door. tara walks up and opens it to see willow in the hall.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: howdy.
scene direction: tara smiles
tara: i just got your message a minute ago. i was in class. but i was about to call you.
scene direction: she steps back to let willow inside.
willow: i had so much fun the other night. the spells.
tara: yeah, that was nice.
willow: i hope you don't think that i just come over for the spells and everything. i mean, i really like just talking and hanging out with you and stuff.
tara: i know that.
scene direction: tara knowingly
tara: but you want to do a spell.
willow: yeah. but only because it's really important. there's this--.
tara: no. you don't have to explain. i don't mind. really.
scene direction: tara smiles
tara: i've been, um, thinking about that last spell we did all day.
scene direction: willow excited
willow: you have? well this one should be fun, too. we conjure the goddess thespia to help us locate demonic energy in the area. it shouldn't be too tricky.
tara: the goddess thespia? are you sure we're ready for that?
willow: you and me?
scene direction: willow gamely
willow: this is beneath us.
scene direction: tara considers
tara: . . . okay. if you say so.
scene change: cut to willy's bar. buffy makes her entrance by pushing aside the beaded string curtains and quickly spots willy behind the bar. willy sees her and doesn't bother to hide a "god must hate me" sigh. he motions her to the other end of the bar. buffy follows and leans on the bar.
willy: you're killing me here.
buffy: oh, i missed you, too. the joint's jumping.
willy: yeah. you know.
scene direction: the vampire sitting nearby sees buffy looking at him and takes his leave, forgetting his beer.
willy: making some changes with my life. i'm getting away from my old image.
buffy: you mean as a double-dealing snitch?
willy: uh-huh. i know you gonna think i'm blowing smoke, but after those apocalypse demons nearly did me in, i had an experience of the spiritual variety.
scene direction: buffy not caring
buffy: that's swell, really. but i need to know if you've heard anything about a polgara demon doing some killings in the last few of days.
willy: see, uh, that's the think. i don't talk behind people's backs no more. and i'm bringing some class to the joint. you know? it's "willy's place" now. see?
scene direction: willy indicates neon sign on the wall
willy: brings in a better clientele. i got one of those deep friers. these demons just go crazy for chicken fingers.
scene direction: willy off buffy's expression
willy: look, if they see me dealing with you, then i'm just the same old willy working both sides of the street.
buffy: i'm gonna have to punch you, aren't i?
scene direction: willy not missing a beat
willy: just once and it don't have to hurt. just make it look good.
scene direction: buffy straightens and raises her fist. willy instantly clutches his nose.
willy: oww! oh!
scene direction: buffy whispering
buffy: not yet, i haven't touched you!
willy: oh, sorry. right. right. g-go ahead. wait.
scene direction: willy louder voice
willy: no. i can't talk to you--oww!
scene direction: buffy straight-jabs him in the nose and now he's really hurting.
willy: ohhhh!
buffy: what have you heard about the polgara?
scene direction: willy still in pain
willy: heard there was one about a week or two back. word was you got him. you and those army guys.
buffy: and that was the last you heard?
willy: yeah. as far as i know, he's off the streets.
buffy: what about those army guys? what do you know? you heard anything about 314?
scene direction: riley walks through the stringed curtains. looking the place over he realizes it's filled with demons. as he approaches buffy notice there is a thin sheen of sweat on his face. he doesn't look happy at what he's seeing.
scene direction: buffy faces him
buffy: what are you doing here? following me?
scene direction: riley a tad pissed
riley: you told me you were tracking the polgara demon. i thought i'd help. but now i see you're not hunting demons, you're socializing with them. *again.* i thought you were supposed to be killing these things not buying them drinks?
scene direction: by this point he's become the center of attention.
scene direction: buffy sarcastic
buffy: oh, that's smooth, officer riley. they teach you those undercover moves in special forces?
riley: i'm serious, buffy. what are you doing here?
willy: just cooling her dogs, like the rest of us. why don't you sit down. relax.
scene direction: riley ignores him
riley: i want you to tell me. who are you?
scene direction: riley seething
riley: really?
scene direction: buffy glares at him, becoming a little pissed herself.
willy: no kidding. why don't i get you some chicken fingers, on the house.
scene direction: riley to willy
riley: hey, you think you can shut up?
willy: look, i'm just saying--.
riley: i said shut up! or maybe you would like to go back to the lab with me. i'm sure the coats would love to classify a . . . whatever you are.
buffy: leave him alone, riley. he's human.
riley: so he's human.
scene direction: she looks at his arms.
buffy: you're shaking.
scene direction: riley looking at buffy
riley: he just harbors demons. which makes him a good guy like you?
scene direction: riley grabs her roughly by the shoulders
riley: the truth, buffy. now!
buffy: you have the truth. you are just too screwed up because of what happened to professor walsh to see it.
scene direction: buffy raises voice
buffy: now let go of me!
scene direction: buffy knocks his hands off her shoulders
scene direction: a middle-age looking woman gets up from the bar and walks quickly towards the door. riley spots her over his shoulder.
riley: hold it! you!
scene direction: she stops in her tracks as he draws his barretta and aims it at her.
scene direction: the gun is trembling in his hand.
riley: no leaving until i say so. got it?
willy: hey. we got new rules here. no killing.
scene direction: riley looking over his shoulder
riley: right! except the rules don't seem to apply much these days. do they?
scene direction: the woman is now facing riley and looks terrified. riley's breathing is becoming heavier and his shaking is getting worse.
scene direction: riley to the woman
riley: like if i shot you right now, i don't know if i'd have a corpse on my hands or one pissed off vampire.
buffy: riley--.
scene direction: riley to buffy
riley: i mean, who do you believe? first it sounds like lies. then it sounds like truth.
scene direction: looks at the woman. she's starting to whimper.
buffy: riley. . .
scene direction: he glances at buffy and seems to realize what he's doing. he suddenly turns to the bar, sweeping his gun across the surface smashing several glasses. the woman flees. buffy slowly approaches him. concerned.
scene direction: he has his hands pressed to the bar as he leans against it, shaking uncontrollably.
riley: what's happening to me?
scene change: *** part three ***
scene direction: fade in. xander's basement. it seems to be night. riley is sitting on the bed with his head in his hands. he's no longer wearing his commando vest, gunbelt, nor his boots. buffy brings him a blanket and drapes it around his shoulders as she sits down next to him. he looks up and pushes the blanket off. he's still sweating and shaking.
scene direction: buffy rubs a soothing hand on his back.
scene direction: buffy soft voice
buffy: riley, why don't you lie down? you'll be more comfortable.
scene direction: she sees him furiously scratching the back of his right hand. he's broken the surface and there's a patch of red on his skin. she grabs his hands.
buffy: stop it.
scene direction: riley shaky voice
riley: i can't. it's like . . . something's growing inside.
scene direction: he starts scratching and she takes his hand again.
buffy: no. you're hurting yourself. c'mere.
scene direction: buffy reaches up and pulls off the red scarf she had wrapped around her hair
buffy: okay, shh.
scene direction: buffy gently wraps it around his hand
riley: i thought i knew . . . but i don't. i don't know anything.
scene direction: buffy soothingly
buffy: shh. you're sick. once you get some rest--.
riley: no. buffy. i don't know . . . anything. i don't know which team i'm on. who the bad guys are.
scene direction: riley looks into her eyes
riley: maybe i'm the bad guy. maybe i'm the thing you should kill.
buffy: no. don't you even think that.
scene direction: buffy puts a hand on his cheek
buffy: okay, listen to me. you're sick. you just need to get some sleep. please. lie down for me. come on.
scene direction: he pushes himself onto the bed and lays his head on the pillow. he curls his arms and legs in close as if cold and continues to shiver.
scene direction: buffy walks around to the side and leans down to caress his cheek.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: you're gonna be okay.
scene direction: his eyes are closed and he seems to calm down a little. buffy turns and steps through the draped blankets to the other side of the basement. giles, xander, and anya are there researching. giles is bringing a box of old books they haven't looked through to the others.
giles: how is he?
buffy: this isn't just grief making him act this way. something's effecting him physically and it's getting worse.
anya: you think professor walsh did something to him?
buffy: i don't know, but i'm ready to find out.
xander: that's gonna be tough, what with maggie's deadness and all.
buffy: she must have kept records somewhere. a-about riley, about 314, about all of it. and i'm sure she wasn't the only person that knew what she was up to.
xander: so what's the plan?
buffy: giles, anya, keep researching. xander, you and i are going undercover.
anya: hey!
scene direction: anya steps closer to xander
anya: remember before? no xander! not in a "boyfriend" way or a "lead him to a certain death" way.
buffy: he's the only one with military experience.
anya: it's not like he was in the 'nam. he was gi joe for one night.
xander: it's okay, anya. i've backed up buffy before.
scene direction: anya concerned
anya: can't you do something else to help them? like xerox handouts or something?
xander: i'll be careful.
scene direction: xander puts his hands on her shoulders
xander: promise.
scene direction: she concedes but is not happy about it and xander goes to get ready.
scene direction: giles stands up from the box of books he was going through and faces buffy.
giles: it's a minor point but how do you plan to get in to the initiative? i'm sure their security system's almost impenetrable.
buffy: i have my clearance. i'm hoping she didn't have time to revoke it.
giles: okay. well as for the whereabouts of this polgara demon, i'm afraid we've . . we've not turned up much. there've been no reports since its original capture.
buffy: then we'll just have to keep looking.
scene change: cut to tara's room. there is a bundle of string shaped into a square on the floor with four different color crystals weighing down each corner. willow and tara are sitting on either side of the square.
scene direction: willow is grounding something in a small bowl.
tara: so . . the square is sunnydale?
willow: right. it's like a map. we both take different parts of the potion and when we do the incantation we both blow it onto the square at the exact same time.
tara: but how does it work?
willow: well that's the cool part. when the potion mixes and thespia's called it creates this mist over the parts where the demons are. i-it even makes different colors for different breeds.
tara: wow.
willow: you ready?
scene direction: tara nods. willow pours some of the powdered contents of the bowl into tara's palm, then pours some into her own hand from a second bowl.
willow: let's do it.
scene direction: she closes her eyes and tara does the same.
tara: thespia, we walk in shadow. walk in blindness. you are the protector of the night.
willow: thespia, goddess, ruler of all darkness, we implore you . . . open a window to the world of the underbeing.
scene direction: willow blows the powder out of her hand over the square. tara blows over her hand, not disturbing her powder, and leans toward her bed to dump the potion underneath it. willow still has her eyes closed and did not see this.
willow: with your knowledge may we go in safety. with your grace may we speak of your benevolence.
scene direction: willow opens her eyes and looks down at the square, where nothing is happening. she frowns.
willow: or not.
scene direction: she looks at tara. tara gives her a disappointed look.
scene change: cut to lowell house. buffy and xander are quietly walking through the deserted lobby. xander is wearing military garb similar to that of the initiative commandos. he even has a gun belt with a sidearm in the holster. buffy is wearing a turtle-neck sweater, wire-rimmed glasses, and has her hair pulled back in a small bun. she is carrying a white lab coat wrapped around a clipboard.
xander: seems pretty quite.
buffy: it usually is this time of--.
scene direction: a young man suddenly brushes past her but doesn't even act as if he notices them and continues on. buffy and xander continue into the central hallway of the building and buffy pushes the hidden switch in the wall next to the floor to ceiling mirror and stands in front of it.
scene direction: xander stepping up next to her
xander: buff, maybe you should check the look later.
buffy: shh!
scene direction: buffy shoves him away none too gently
xander: oww!
scene direction: xander surprised and a little hurt
xander: what'd you do that for?
buffy: sorry. i'm the only one that can pass the retinal scan.
xander: the re-- eww! i don't wanna see that.
scene direction: buffy glares
buffy: *retinal* scan, xander.
scene direction: buffy looks into the mirror again
buffy: well, we'll know in a few seconds if my clearance is still good.
scene direction: a horizontal green light emits from the mirror and slides down over her body.
xander: or if we're about to die at the hands of fifty grief-filled military goons.
female computer voice: retinal scan recorded. summers. buffy.
scene direction: the mirror slides to the side and buffy steps into the very white elevator. xander follows her.
xander: why am i not entirely comforted by the arrival of the man-sized microwave?
scene change: cut to initiative. the elevator door slides open and buffy is now wearing the lab coat and she and xander step out onto the catwalk overlooking the huge hangar of the initiative complex. his eyes widen as he gapes.
scene direction: xander awed
xander: holy moly!
buffy: i know.
xander: i totally get it now. can i have sex with riley, too?
scene direction: buffy glares at him but he's still staring and doesn't see it. she takes his arm and leads him towards the stairs. when they descend to the first landing they see a couple of commandos climbing the stairs towards them. xander turns to buffy and pulls her close to him.
scene direction: xander whispers
xander: quick pretend to make out with me!
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: what!? what are you talking about?
scene direction: buffy pushes away
scene direction: xander whispers
xander: well, i, uh, you know, in the movies, the guy and the girl have to hide.
scene direction: they pretend to be looking at her clipboard as the commandos pass them and continue up the stairs.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: please! could you possibly draw more attention to us?
scene direction: when the commandos are gone, they continue down to stairs.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: this is the initiative, xander. military guys and scientists do not make out with each other.
scene direction: xander whispers
xander: well maybe that's what's wrong with the world. ever think about that?
scene direction: back at xander's basement. riley is still in bed and is sleeping.
scene change: cut to the other side of the basement. willow is pacing. anya is sitting in a large beanbag, looking through a book, and giles is fixing tea on the washing machine.
willow: it totally failed. it wasn't even like the spell went wrong. it just . . . wouldn't.
giles: if it's any consolation, we haven't fared much better here.
willow: really. is riley okay?
giles: well, h-he's asleep. finally. but he doesn't look good.
scene direction: giles hands anya a cup
giles: and the, uh, research is troubling as well. i mean, this-this demon we're after seems highly atypical for a polgara. this child that it killed . . was mutilated. there's no recorded cases of a polgara ever having done such a thing.
scene direction: anya fidgeting with the string of her tea bag
anya: also the polgara have to eat every two hours. factor in the low iq and you have a demon who's not exactly low profile.
willow: so how has he been hiding out in sunnydale for the last two days without anyone seeing him?
giles: exactly.
scene direction: willow pushes aside the blanket to check on riley. she finds him standing just a foot in front of her. his eyes look a little sunken.
scene direction: willow surprised
willow: riley.
scene direction: riley agitated
riley: where's buffy?
willow: she went out. can-can i get you something?
scene direction: he sits on the bed to pull on his boots.
riley: just tell me where she is.
giles: you're not well, riley. y-you need to rest.
riley: did she find the polgara?
scene direction: riley stands, rubbing his arm as if cold
scene direction: huh? is that it?
giles: well, no, we're still looking. but--.
riley: but what?
willow: she went to find out what's making you sick.
scene direction: riley sharply
riley: i'm not sick!
scene direction: riley more agitated
riley: you're telling me she went to the initiative?!
willow: riley, she's just trying to help you.
scene direction: riley crosses the basement to grab his gear
riley: she doesn't belong there.
scene direction: willow hurries to stand in front of the stairs to block his way.
willow: riley, listen--.
riley: stand away from the stairs.
willow: no! you're gonna get buffy killed--.
scene direction: he shoves her hard to the ground.
giles: hey!
scene direction: he and anya rush to willow as riley dashes up the stairs.
giles: you all right?
scene direction: willow is shaken but doesn't seemed to be hurt.
scene change: cut to initiative. buffy and xander are rounding a corner when they hear someone coming from down the corridor.
angleman: how many of the men are still out?
scene direction: they return to the corner and try to look inconspicuous as dr. angleman enters the corridor with another scientist. they eavesdrop.
angleman: the longer they go without their meds . . .
scientist #1: everyone's off their schedules because of the professor's death.
angleman: it's dangerous. i don't want to think about the damage our guys could do under the stress of withdrawal. especially since they won't understand what's happening to them. these guys don't know they've been getting meds in their food, so we better get them in here stat.
scientist #1: we've located all but a few. the last ones were in pretty bad shape but we stabilized them.
angleman: but finn wasn't one of them, right?
scientist #1: no.
angleman: find him. he's the one i care about. he's too important to the work to lose now.
scientist #1: indeed.
scene change: cut to willy's place. spike walks in through the beaded curtains and heads to the bar.
spike: double-shot of o-neg, 'keep. and make it the good stuff. i don't want no freaking orangutan.
scene direction: spike puts a few dollars on the bar
willy: got ya.
scene direction: willy grabs a shot glass and a bottle of thick, red liquid.
scene direction: spike as drink is being poured
spike: been a pisser of a day, isn't it? those army blokes are on a tear. they ran me outta my place. and all over town.
scene direction: willy moves on and before spike can take a drink, a large demon hand falls on his shoulder.
spike: yeah, what's that?
scene direction: spike turns his head to look at the demon. spike's pov - the demon raises his other clawed hand in a closed fist and punches the camera out.
scene direction: fade out.
scene change: cut to the initiative. buffy and xander are still eavesdropping on angleman.
angleman: keep me posted. i'll be in records he walks away and the other scientist heads in the other direction.
scene direction: buffy keeps her back turned as angleman passes behind her to a door at the end of the hall. he slips a key card through an electronic lock and steps through the door. it's swinging close behind him but buffy shoves the clipboard inside before it can and walks in. she hands the clipboard to xander and marches up behind angleman who is unaware until she spins him around to face her and shoves him against a counter, getting a fistful of his shirt.
scene direction: buffy pissed
buffy: now i don't generally like to kill humans, but i've learned that it pays to be flexible in life.
angleman: i was wondering when you'd turn up.
scene direction: buffy mock disappointment
buffy: oh darn!
scene direction: buffy takes off her glasses
buffy: so this isn't a surprise? now you can tell me what you did to riley and after that we can take a tour of room 314.
angleman: somebody's coming, you know? i'm sure they've already seen you on the security monitors.
scene direction: riley stepping from around a the corner
riley: monitors are non-functional at this time, sir. went down about ten minutes ago.
scene direction: buffy looks to xander
buffy: what? i didn't do that.
xander: thank god for small favors and we'll worry about details later, huh, buff?
angleman: finn take this girl to the stockade immediately.
buffy: riley, he can tell us what we need to know.
scene direction: buffy to angleman
buffy: maggie wanted me dead, didn't she?
scene direction: angleman a beat
angleman: she did.
scene direction: angleman to riley
angleman: but understand the initiative has no interest in eliminating the slayer. it was her own vendetta.
buffy: why? spell it out for me. i feel an attack of "dumb blonde" coming on.
angleman: i don't know.
scene direction: buffy jerks him closer
buffy: well. think. harder.
angleman: it was . . . the project.
buffy: project? 314.
angleman: it . . .
scene direction: glances at riley who is paying close attention.
scene direction: angleman to buffy
angleman: it escaped.
scene direction: riley stepping closer
riley: that's enough! you're making her sound like some psychopath. she wasn't like that! she was a brilliant woman!
angleman: she was. i--it's not-- riley:
scene direction: angleman angry
angleman: all she was doing was trying to help people . . . and this is the way you want them to remember her?!
scene direction: buffy to riley
buffy: angleman said walsh was feeding you drugs.
riley: you're doing this to me, aren't you?
scene direction: he advances on her and buffy lets go of angleman to face him.
scene direction: angleman starts slinking away towards a nearby door.
scene direction: riley glaring
riley: this all started because of you!
buffy: look, if you will just listen to me, okay? i am trying to help you get to the truth.
riley: you want truth? then tell me . . .
scene direction: riley grabs her arm
riley: what did you do to her, buffy?
scene direction: buffy breaks the hold
buffy: stop it! i didn't do anything!
scene direction: riley tries to grab her again and she has to push him back.
buffy: riley, stop! this isn't about us! everything that we need to know is here. we just need to find out what was in 314.
scene direction: a commando's body suddenly drops to the floor behind them. they all turn and look up. on a catwalk adam is looking down at them.
adam: me.
scene change: *** part four ***
scene direction: fade in. adam starts to pace across the catwalk.
adam: i've been thinking about the world. i wanted to see it. learn it. i saw the inside of that boy and it was beautiful. but it didn't tell me about the world. it just made me feel. so now . . . i want to learn about me. why i feel? what i am?
scene direction: he stops pacing and turns to face them. he takes a step forward and drops to the floor, landing on his feet. he's looking at riley.
adam: so i came home.
scene direction: he pulls out a computer disk from the cargo pocket of his camouflage pants. its labeled "adam" and he slides it into the drive slot of the metal plate on his chest. the disk loads itself with a soft whirring.
scene direction: adam pacing again
adam: i'm a kinematically redundant, biomechanical demonoid. designed by maggie walsh. she called me adam and i called her mother.
angleman: adam. maggie would want you to stand down.
scene direction: adam looks at him
adam: yes. but i seem to have a design flaw.
scene direction: angleman looks as if he's ready to bolt. buffy has a "oh, shit" look on her face.
scene direction: adam pacing
adam: in addition to organic material, i'm equipped with gp-2/d-11 infrared detectors. a harmonic decelerator, plus dc servo.
buffy: she pieced you together from parts of other demons.
scene direction: adam looks down at his green polgara arm, and his dark tan demon right arm, which is plated with metal on the forearm and shoulder.
adam: and man. and machine. which tells me what i am . . but not who i am. mother wrote things down. hard data, but also her feelings. that's how i learned that i have a job here. and that she loved me.
riley: she wasn't your mother! and she didn't love you!
scene direction: xander not taking eyes off adam
xander: is that really the issue?
riley: she made you because she was a scientist!
scene direction: xander warningly
xander: rileeey.
adam: riley finn.
scene direction: he pulls out another disk, this one labeled "finn," and loads it into his chest.
riley: stop! those files--.
adam: oh! mother created you, too.
riley: maggie is not my mother!
scene direction: riley to buffy
riley: i have a mother! a real--.
adam: a birth mother. yes. but after you met maggie, she was the one who shaped your basic operating system. she taught you how to think. how to feel. she fed you chemicals to make you stronger. your mind and body. she said that you and i were her favorite children. her art. that makes us brothers. family.
riley: no!
scene direction: riley taking a step forward
riley: i'm not like you!
adam: that's pain, isn't it? why? because your feeding schedule --the chemicals-- have been interrupted? or do you miss her? tell me.
riley: i'll kill you!
scene direction: adam calmly
adam: you won't. you haven't been programmed to.
riley: i cannot be programmed! i'm a man!
adam: it's here.
scene direction: he's pulled out another disk and his holding it up for riley to see.
adam: the plan she had for us. what happens. how it ends.
scene direction: riley quietly
riley: no.
adam: do you want to hear?
riley: no!
scene direction: riley draws his barretta and aims it at adam. before he can pull the trigger, adam grabs his arm and forces him to drop it. buffy rushes forward and adam backhands her in the face, sending her to the floor.
scene direction: riley frees himself and punches adam across the metal side of his face. adam, unfazed, hits him with an uppercut that sends him flying high across the room over a middle work table. he hits the floor in a tumble, stunned.
scene direction: xander rushes forward but adam just shoves him back against the wall and he goes down.
scene direction: buffy is on her feet and sends a powerful roundkick to adam's chest.
scene direction: adam just looks at her and smashes a fist across her face. she retaliates with a punch to his midsection. adam responds by slamming the same fist down on her shoulder this time driving her to the floor.
scene direction: angleman decides it's time to get the hell out of there and runs past adam, heading for the door. adam sees him and his polgara skewer juts out of his arm.
adam: doctor.
scene direction: adam steps forward and plunges the skewer into angleman's back. he gasps and shudders in pain for a few seconds then falls to the floor, sliding off the spear. riley runs up behind adam and jumps on his back, wrapping an arm around his neck. adam just turns on him and stabs him in the left side of his abdomen. riley falls back, hitting the metal railing of the stairs, and drops to the floor clutching his side.
scene direction: buffy gets to her feet and slams a side kick into adam's back, this time making him stumble. he quickly turns and she ducks a slash aimed at her head. he grabs her around the neck with his other hand and shoves her to the floor.
scene change: cut to the door. graham and forrest can be seen through the small wired-glass window. they are pounding on the door, trying to get in.
scene direction: adam grabs buffy again, lifting her off the floor, and throws her against the wall. she hits hard and falls, unmoving. adam just stands and looks down at his fallen opponents.
scene direction: there are now more commandos outside the door, trying to break through.
adam: thank you. this has been . . . very interesting.
scene direction: he walks to the stairs and heads back up to the catwalk. riley is lying against the wall, in pain and buffy, nearby, is starting to move again.
scene direction: commando os
commando: back away from the door!
scene direction: finally, one of the commandos sends a circle of shots through the metal door around the handle. adam walks under an airvent and reaches for the grated cover.
scene direction: buffy moves to riley's side.
buffy: riley. are you okay?
scene direction: the door gives way and two commandos rush in, guns ready. forrest and graham are right behind them and another half dozen commandos follow.
scene direction: they see angleman's body as they walk inside.
scene direction: commando os
commando: secure the room! go! go!
scene direction: xander still on the floor
xander: we got a demon in here. it escaped through that vent.
buffy: it's not the polgara. it looks sort of half man.
forrest: right! and you just happened to be in the neighborhood.
scene direction: riley painfilled
riley: she's telling the truth. i saw it. it killed angleman. go. now!
commando: yes, sir.
scene direction: several commandos rush up the stairs to the vent. forrest steps closer to riley.
buffy: he needs to go to a hospital.
forrest: we'll take it from here.
buffy: i'm going with him.
forrest: it's a military hospital.
buffy: no.
scene direction: forrest kneels beside riley.
forrest: back off! we take care of our own around here, understand?
scene direction: two of the commandos standing next to graham aim their rifles at buffy. xander, not liking where this is going, moves closer to her and reaches a hand down to her.
scene direction: xander concerned
xander: buffy.
scene direction: forrest motions graham forward and buffy has to move as he and forrest lift riley to his feet.
scene direction: forrest to commandos
forrest: escort them out.
scene direction: riley looks back at buffy.
scene direction: riley weakly
riley: buffy.
scene direction: buffy can only stand and watch them take him away and tears start to fill her eyes.
scene change: cut to the door of willy's place swings open and spike is ejected, tumbling into the alley in a broken, bloody mess. as he lies on his back, a large bad-ass demon walks out and stands over him.
bad-ass demon: what did you expect, spike? a welcome party?
scene direction: quick shot of two more mean looking demons standing in the doorway.
bad-ass demon: word's out - you've been making war on the demon world.
scene direction: spike dazed
spike: war?
bad-ass demon: with the slayer! you kill other demons and the rest of us don't hold with that.
scene direction: the other two demons, growling, duck back inside where the jukebox can be heard playing loudly.
bad-ass demon: still . . . if i see you around here again, *i'll* be inclined to break that code. do you understand?
scene direction: spike doesn't, or can't, say anything and the demon turns and walks back inside. leaving spike alone.
scene change: cut to uc sunnydale. next day. willow and buffy are outside, walking across campus.
willow: no word from riley?
buffy: nothing. the initiative probably has him locked in some medical ward. there's no way i can get near him until i come up with a better plan than just storming in and getting us all shot.
willow: yeah, you might want to work the kinks out of that one.
buffy: what am i going to do? he needs me and i can't get near him.
willow: you'll find a way.
buffy: it's not like i can spend all of my energy going after the initiative. not while adam's out there.
willow: he's really that big of a threat?
scene direction: they move to the side of the walkway and sit down on a wooden bench.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i could barely fight him. i-it was like maggie designed him to be the ultimate warrior. he's smart and fast. he gave the commando guys the slip with no problem.
willow: there's gotta be a flaw.
buffy: i think the part where he's pure evil and kills randomly was an oversight.
scene direction: she lets herself sit back as her thoughts return to riley.
buffy: i never should have let them take riley. i need to be with him.
willow: i'm sure he's okay.
buffy: there's no way he can be. everything he's ever believed in has been taken away or . . . he's alone. he has nothing to hold on to. cut to the corridors of the initiative. commandos and scientists are going about business as usual. one commando is standing guard at a closed door. dissolve to interior and the camera pans across the medical room where we see riley lying on a bed. his abdomen is wrapped heavily in bandages, a small red stain over his wound. he's still sweating a little but no longer seems agitated. he's staring at the wall.
scene direction: he lifts his right hand and looks at buffy's scarf still wrapped around his hand.
scene direction: end.
