scene direction: wolf howl.
scene change: *** opening credits ***
buffy: are you sure you'll be all right? cause i can be there in the morning.
scene direction: riley shakes head
riley: it's just a debriefing.
scene direction: they're at joyce's house, standing by the door. giles is in the dining room. willow sitting on the stairs.
riley: they're not gonna make me disappear, and they're not pinning anything on me. i got graham and a lot of the guys testifying i'm the reason they're alive. i might actually get out of this with an honorable discharge.
scene direction: giles eating something
giles: in return for your silence, no doubt.
riley: oh yeah. having the inside scoop on the administration's own bay of mutated pigs is definitely an advantage.
scene direction: willow cheery
willow: it's like you're blackmailing the government.
scene direction: willow they look at her
willow: in a ... patriotic way.
scene direction: riley smiles.
riley: i'll call you when it's over.
scene direction: he and buffy smooch.
scene direction: xander off-screen
xander: dinner is served.
scene direction: xander enters with a bowl of popcorn. joyce behind him.
xander: and my very own recipe.
scene direction: willow takes a handful.
willow: ooh, you pushed the button on the microwave that says "popcorn"?
scene direction: xander shakes head
xander: actually, i pushed "defrost," but, um, joyce was there in the clinch.
riley: well, you guys have fun tonight.
scene direction: riley extends his hand to joyce
riley: it was very nice meeting you.
scene direction: joyce shakes his hand
joyce: it was nice meeting you ... finally.
riley: bye.
buffy: bye.
scene direction: riley leaves. buffy shuts the door behind him. joyce is holding a bowl of peanuts.
scene direction: joyce to buffy
joyce: did you notice how pointedly i said "finally"?
scene direction: buffy innocent face
buffy: no.
scene direction: they all go into the living room.
xander: let the vid-fest begin.
scene direction: giles to joyce
giles: you sure you won't join us?
joyce: no, you guys have your fun.
scene direction: buffy and willow sit on the sofa, xander on the floor.
joyce: i'm tired. i can't believe you're not exhausted. have you even slept since...
giles: still feel a little bit too wired.
willow: mm. yeah, that spell, that was, that was powerful.
buffy: don't think i *could* sleep.
scene direction: buffy and willow curling up on the sofa with blankets over them.
xander: well, we got plenty of vids. and i'm putting in a preemptive bid for "apocalypse now," huh?
scene direction: xander holds up the video
scene direction: willow scowls
willow: did you get anything less heart-of-darkness-y?
scene direction: joyce smiles, puts down bowl.
xander: apocalypse now is a gay romp! it's the feel-good movie of whatever year it was.
scene direction: buffy not buying it
buffy: what else?
scene direction: joyce and giles exchange a smile and she heads for the stairs.
xander: don't worry. got plenty of chick-and-british-guy flicks too. these puppies should last us all night.
scene direction: shot of joyce smiling at them as she climbs the stairs.
scene direction: shot of a hand putting a tape in the vcr and pressing play.
scene direction: pan up to the tv screen. the fbi warning comes up.
scene direction: shot of giles, buffy, willow, and xander fast asleep in their seats.
scene change: *** commercial ***
scene direction: the four still asleep. giles in a chair, buffy and willow on the sofa, xander on the floor. zoom in slowly on willow, clutching a red blanket against herself.
scene change: fade to tara's face. she appears to be lying on her stomach, resting chin on crossed arms. see a bare shoulder.
tara: i think it's strange. i mean, i think i should worry that we haven't found her name.
willow: who, miss kitty?
scene direction: shot of their kitten, playing with a ball of red yarn in slow-motion.
tara: you'd think she'd let us know her name by now.
willow: she will.
scene direction: willow looking down at tara
willow: she's not all grown yet.
tara: you're not worried?
willow: i never worry here.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: i'm safe here.
tara: you don't know everything about me.
willow: have you told me your real name?
scene direction: tara smiles.
tara: oh, you know that.
scene direction: willow smiles, reaches for something.
scene direction: shot of a paintbrush dipping into ink jars.
tara: they will find out, you know.
scene direction: shot of willow's face.
tara: about you.
willow: don't have time to think about that.
scene direction: willow frowns
willow: you know i have all this homework to finish.
scene direction: the camera pulls back to see tara is lying face-down on her bed, naked, and willow is painting on her back.
tara: are you gonna finish in time for class?
willow: i can be late.
tara: but you've never taken drama before.
scene direction: shot of willow dipping the paintbrush again, moving it across to tara's back, which is covered with greek symbols.
tara: might miss something important.
scene direction: pause.
willow: i don't wanna leave here.
scene direction: tara twists back to look at her.
tara: why not?
scene direction: willow stands up, looking down at tara. she turns away toward a dark red curtain. walks over to it.
willow: it's so bright.
scene direction: pulls back the curtain to reveal a brightly sunlit desert. the light falls on tara, who looks over.
scene direction: willow looking back at tara, still holding the curtain open
willow: and there's something out there.
scene direction: shot of the desert, straggly plants, rocks. briefly see something moving, then it's gone.
scene direction: shot of the kitten stalking forward toward the camera, in slow-motion.
scene change: cut to willow walking down the halls of sunnydale high, looking anxious.
scene direction: willow walks up to xander and oz.
xander: hey.
scene direction: willow casual
willow: hey, guys.
scene direction: willow keeps walking
oz: heard you're taking drama.
scene direction: the guys walk after willow.
willow: uh-huh.
oz: it's a tough course.
willow: you took it?
scene direction: willow walks up to a locker, starts trying to open it
oz: oh, i've been here forever.
xander: so whatcha been doin'? doing spells?
scene direction: xander to oz
xander: she does spells with tara.
oz: yeah, i heard about that.
scene direction: willow still trying to open the locker.
scene direction: bell rings.
scene direction: willow anxious
willow: i'm gonna be late.
scene direction: willow walks off
xander: sometimes i think about two women doing a spell ... and then i do a spell by myself.
scene direction: oz looks at him. xander looks at oz, then quickly away.
scene change: cut to willow entering the backstage area. costumes hanging on a rack.
scene direction: people getting into costume. makeup table with mirrors. sound of an orchestra tuning up. people wearing all kinds of different costumes. willow walks around looking lost.
scene direction: harmony runs up to her. she's dressed as a swedish milkmaid with two braids.
harmony: isn't this exciting? our first production! i can't wait till our scene! i love you! oh!
scene direction: harmony hugs willow. suddenly drops the fake friendly act
harmony: don't step on my cues.
willow: production?
scene direction: buffy peeking out through the curtain at the audience. she runs over to willow and harmony. she's dressed as the lead character in "chicago" - short straight black hair, short tight black dress.
buffy: ohmigod. the place is packed. everybody's here! your whole family's in the front row,
scene direction: buffy cheerful
buffy: and they look really angry.
willow: there's a production?
scene direction: harmony rubbing willow's shoulders
harmony: oh, somebody's got stage fright.
willow: isn't this the first class?
scene direction: riley approaches, dressed as a cowboy.
riley: well, you showed up late, or you'd have a better part.
scene direction: riley smiling
riley: i'm cowboy guy.
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: your costume is perfect.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: nobody's gonna know the truth. you know, about you.
scene direction: willow bemused
willow: costume?
scene direction: buffy pouting
buffy: you're already in character! oh, i shoulda done that!
scene direction: stomps foot, turns away.
willow: but how come there's - i mean, i was given to understand that a drama class would have, you know ... drama class. i mean, we haven't even rehearsed!
scene direction: harmony snorts
harmony: well, maybe some people haven't.
scene direction: harmony smiles up at riley
riley: i showed up on time, so i got to be cowboy guy.
scene direction: harmony nods.
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: i just think it's really early to be putting on a play. i, i don't even know what...
scene direction: willow eyes widen
willow: this isn't madame butterfly, is it, because i have a whole problem with opera.
scene direction: giles off-screen
giles: all right, everyone!
scene direction: buffy looks excited. sound of giles clapping hands for attention)
giles: pay attention!
scene direction: everyone gathers around giles.
giles: in just a few moments that curtain is going to open on our very first production. now, everyone that willow's ever met ... is out in that audience, including all of us. that means we have to be perfect.
scene direction: shot of willow looking upset.
giles: stay in character...
scene direction: willow sees something hairy behind a prop. she stares.
giles: ...remember your lines, and energy energy energy, especially in the musical numbers!
scene direction: shot of buffy looking really excited.
scene direction: willow whispering
willow: did anyone see that?
giles: acting is not about behaving, it's about hiding. the audience wants to find you...
scene direction: harmony behind him, wearing vampire face, grabbing his shoulders and trying to bite him.
giles: ...strip you naked, and eat you alive, so hide.
scene direction: giles to harmony
giles: stop that.
scene direction: harmony stops.
giles: now, costumes, sets, um, the things that you, uh, you know, uh, you, um... shot from above. we see the cast gathered, harmony still jumping up behind giles trying to bite him.
giles: ...you hold them, you touch them, uh, use them, um...
harmony: props?
giles: no.
riley: props?
giles: yes!
scene direction: giles points at riley
giles: it's all about subterfuge.
scene direction: giles to harmony
giles: that's very annoying.
scene direction: giles to everyone
giles: now go on out there, lie like dogs, and have a wonderful time.
scene direction: shot of riley looking excited.
giles: now, if we can stay in focus, keep our heads, and if willow can stop stepping on everyone's cues,
scene direction: giles looks at willow looking anxious
giles: i know this'll be the best production of "death of a salesman" we've ever done.
scene direction: giles to harmony
giles: stop it.
scene direction: giles loudly
giles: good luck everyone! break a leg!
scene direction: giles pushes through them and leaves
scene direction: excited chatter. willow frowns.
scene direction: sound fades out. the costumed students chattering and moving around, but it's silent. willow walks through the crowd looking confused.
scene direction: to the side, in the darkness, she sees a bald man wearing glasses.
scene direction: bald man whispers
bald man: i've made a little space for the cheese slices.
scene direction: he shows her a table with slices of american cheese laid neatly in a row.
scene direction: willow frowns. eerie music starts up. willow walks past a curtain. she's in a narrow tunnel made of red stage curtains on either side. she walks slowly through it. creepy music. it's dark. then willow walks into a beam of light, and tara is there.
tara: things aren't going very well.
scene direction: willow agitated
willow: no! this drama class is just ... i think they're really not doing things in the proper way, and now i'm in a play and my whole family's out there, and ... why is there a cowboy in "death of a salesman" anyway?
scene direction: tara frowns
tara: you don't understand yet, do you?
scene direction: willow frowns, looks around.
scene direction: willow whispers
willow: is there something following me?
scene direction: tara nods.
tara: yes.
willow: well, what, uh, what should i do? the, the play's gonna start soon, and i don't even know my lines.
tara: the play's already started. that's not the point.
scene direction: willow looks alarmed.
scene change: cut to the stage. riley on the left with hands on his belt. in the middle, harmony wearing a yoke with buckets on either end. on the right, buffy reclining seductively on a sofa.
scene direction: riley swaggers forward, pushes up cowboy hat
riley: why, hello, little lady. can i hold those milk pails for you?
scene direction: laughter from audience.
harmony: why thank you, but they're not very heavy.
scene direction: harmony overacting
harmony: why have you come to our lonely small town, which has no post office and very few exports?
riley: i've come looking for a man.
scene direction: riley looks directly into camera
riley: a *sales* man.
scene change: cut to willow looking anxious.
scene direction: tara off-screen
tara: everyone's starting to wonder about you. the real you. if they find out, they'll punish you, i ... i can't help you with that.
willow: well, what should i ... what's after me? is it something i-i was supposed to do? w-was i supposed to...
tara: shh.
scene direction: tara looking around
scene direction: willow looks around. hears a buzzing noise.
scene direction: willow whispers
willow: what was that?
scene direction: tara looks worried.
scene change: cut to stage. riley in the foreground facing the audience. buffy in the middle ground facing riley. harmony in the background, sitting on the sofa, crying.
scene direction: buffy with contempt
buffy: but what else could i expect from a bunch of low-rent, no-account hoodlums like you? hoodlums, yes, i mean you and your friends, your whole sex, throw 'em in the sea for all i care, throw 'em in and wait for the bubbles, men with your groping and spitting all groin no brain three billion of you passing around the same worn-out urge. men! with your ... sales!
scene direction: she says all this in one breath without pause or inflection. harmony sobs throughout and riley stands expressionless.
scene change: cut to willow looking over her shoulder. she turns back and tara is gone.
scene direction: willow looking scared, whispers
willow: tara? tara, okay, this really isn't fu...
scene direction: a stake or dagger slashes through the curtain right by her face. she gasps, turns away. a hand covered in rags reaches out of the other curtain, tries to grab her. she's knocked to the floor. she screams and covers her head with her hands. another hand reaches for her.
buffy: will!
scene direction: buffy leaning through the curtains to grab her.
willow: buffy! oh god.
buffy: come on.
scene direction: buffy helps her up and through the curtain. they're in a sunnydale high classroom
buffy: stay low.
scene direction: they crouch down and creep between the desks.
buffy: what did it look like?
willow: i don't know. i-i don't know what's after me.
buffy: well, you must have *done* something.
scene direction: buffy frowning in disapproval
willow: no. i never do anything. i'm very seldom naughty. i, i just came to class, and, and the play was starting.
scene direction: buffy straightens up
buffy: play is long over.
scene direction: buffy stares at willow
buffy: why are you still in costume?
willow: okay, still having to explain wherein this is just my outfit.
scene direction: gesturing to her clothes.
buffy: willow, everybody already knows. take it off.
willow: no. no.
scene direction: willow looks around nervously
willow: i need it.
scene direction: buffy rolls her eyes.
buffy: oh, for god's sake, just take it off.
scene direction: buffy spins willow around and rips her clothes off.
buffy: that's better. it's much more realistic.
scene direction: suddenly all the desks have students in them. buffy turns and goes to take her seat.
harmony: see? isn't everybody very clear on this now?
scene direction: anya sitting next to harmony, giggling. the whole class is giggling.
scene direction: shot of willow in her nerdy schoolgirl outfit and long straight hair from btvs first season. holding some paper.
anya: my god, it's like a tragedy.
scene direction: shot of buffy looking at willow.
scene direction: oz to tara
oz: i tried to warn you.
scene direction: oz gives willow a disgusted look
scene direction: anya still giggling
anya: it's exactly like a greek tragedy. there should only be greeks.
scene direction: willow looks around the room nervously, looks down at her paper.
scene direction: willow licks lips
willow: my book report. this summer i, i read "the lion, the witch and the wardrobe." xander:
scene direction: willow loudly, to ceiling
willow: oh, who cares?
scene direction: willow looks hurt. sound of giggling. shot of oz nuzzling tara's cheek while she giggles.
willow: this book ha-has many themes...
scene direction: something bursts onscreen and knocks willow down. she screams.
scene direction: shot of buffy putting her head down on her arms on the desk, looking bored. sound of willow screaming and the attacker growling.
willow: help! help me!
scene direction: shot of xander looking bored.
scene direction: shot of oz and tara giving each other conspiratorial smiles.
willow: help me!
scene direction: growling noise continues as willow struggles. the creature/person attacking willow has dark skin and long matted dark hair, and is wrapped in rags. it bends as if to bite her neck. closeup of willow's face with the dark hair half-obscuring it. her eyes widen. the skin on her face wrinkles and her eyes cloud.
scene change: cut to the real willow on the couch, asleep, still covered with the red blanket, twitching and making noises as if choking.
scene change: *** commercial ***
scene direction: willow still twitching and gasping for air. pan down to xander who suddenly sits up.
xander: i'm awake. i'm good. did i miss anything?
scene direction: xander looks at willow, who's still asleep and twitching
scene direction: giles eating popcorn
giles: not very much at all really.
scene direction: buffy eating popcorn
buffy: bunch of massacring.
scene direction: xander looks at tv, raises eyebrows.
scene direction: on tv, a soldier carrying a gun walks through a forest.
tv soldier: we gotta keep going, men.
scene direction: tv soldier panting
tv soldier: we gotta take that hill.
scene direction: xander looks interested.
tv soldier: damn this war!
giles: i have to say, i really feel that "apocalypse now" is overrated.
xander: no, no.
scene direction: xander points at screen
xander: it gets better.
tv soldier: men...
xander: i remember that it gets better.
tv soldier: oh my god. what's happened to my men? ahhh!
scene direction: buffy looks bored.
buffy: want some corn?
scene direction: buffy holds out bowl to xander
scene direction: xander turns head
xander: butter flavor?
buffy: new car smell.
xander: cool.
scene direction: xander leans across willow to take a handful
xander: what's her deal?
scene direction: xander indicating willow
buffy: big faker.
scene direction: giles still looking at tv
giles: oh, i'm beginning to understand this now. it's all about the journey, isn't it?
scene direction: xander rolls his eyes.
xander: well, thanks for making me have to pee.
scene direction: xander gets up
buffy: you don't need any help with that, right?
scene direction: xander heading for stairs
xander: got a system.
scene direction: xander climbs the stairs. he emerges in the upper hallway. joyce appears behind him, wearing a revealing red nightie.
joyce: hey.
scene direction: xander turns.
xander: hey joyce. mrs. summers.
scene direction: xander takes a step closer
xander: we're not making too much noise down there, are we?
joyce: oh, no. anyway, they all left a while ago.
xander: oh, i should probably go catch up.
scene direction: joyce grins
joyce: i've heard that before.
xander: i move pretty fast. you know, a man's always after...
joyce: conquest?
scene direction: xander shrugs
xander: i'm a conquistador.
scene direction: pan across joyce's breasts.
scene direction: joyce voiceover
joyce: you sure it isn't comfort?
xander: i'm a comfortador also.
scene direction: joyce leans seductively against the door frame
joyce: i do know the difference. i've learned about boys.
xander: that's cool about you.
scene direction: shot of joyce giving him a seductive look.
scene direction: shot of xander staring at her.
scene direction: joyce off-screen
joyce: it's very late.
scene direction: shot of joyce. again hear her voice although her lips don't move.
joyce: would you like to rest for a while?
scene direction: pan over to her bed with the covers turned down. xander looks from it to her.
xander: um, yeah.
scene direction: xander confidently
xander: i'd like you. i'm just ... gonna go to the bathroom first.
joyce: don't get lost.
scene direction: joyce slinks into her room
scene direction: xander enters the bathroom, closes the door, lifts the toilet lid, unzips his pants. suddenly he looks over and sees a lab full of a whole bunch of initiative people watching him -- scientists in white coats in the foreground, writing on clipboards, soldiers in the background wearing fatigues. xander raises his eyebrows, zips his pants back up.
xander: okay, i'm gonna find another bathroom.
scene direction: opens the door and leaves, still watching them over his shoulder. crosses the hall and goes through the opposite door. now he's in his basement, dark. the door at the top of the stairs is closed, doorknob rattling ominously.
scene direction: xander loudly
xander: i didn't *order* any vampires.
scene direction: knob rattles louder and louder. then a pounding on the door.
scene direction: xander nervous
xander: that's not the way out.
scene direction: xander backing away
scene change: cut to a playground, daylight. giles and spike are swinging on swings, both dressed in giles-type tweeds. buffy playing in the sandbox.
scene direction: xander walks up.
xander: hey, there you are.
scene direction: buffy putting sand in pail with plastic shovel
buffy: are you sure it's us you were looking for?
scene direction: giles smiles at her.
spike: giles here is gonna teach me to be a watcher. says i got the stuff.
giles: spike's like a son to me.
scene direction: they both smile and continue swinging.
xander: that's good. i was into that for a while, but...
scene direction: xander nods toward the street
xander: i got other stuff goin' on.
scene direction: long shot of the ice-cream truck surrounded by kids.
scene direction: closer shot of xander in the truck, wearing his striped shirt and hat, serving ice cream to kids.
scene direction: xander in playground
xander: you gotta have something.
scene direction: xander looks at buffy
xander: gotta be with movin' forward.
scene direction: buffy like a proud little kid
buffy: like a shark.
xander: like a shark with feet and ... much less fins.
scene direction: spike like a proud little kid
spike: and on land!
giles: very good!
scene direction: they keep swinging.
xander: buffy, are you sure you wanna play there?
scene direction: buffy gives him a pouty look like a little kid told not to do something.
xander: it's a pretty big sandbox.
buffy: i'm okay.
scene direction: suddenly she is against the backdrop of the desert from willow's dream. rocks, sand, scraggly trees.
buffy: it's not coming for me yet.
xander: i just mean ... you can't protect yourself from ... some stuff.
scene direction: buffy looks directly at him. the playground backdrop is back.
buffy: i'm way ahead of you, big brother.
xander: brother?
scene direction: buffy looks at him expressionless. soft music plays - a woman vocalizing without words.
scene direction: spike and giles swinging higher and higher.
giles: go on, put your back into it! a watcher scoffs at gravity.
scene direction: they continue swinging. woman continues humming.
scene direction: shot of buffy still expressionless.
scene direction: shot of xander squinting at her.
scene direction: shot of the other xander in the truck, watching them.
scene direction: shot of the four of them from the truck-xander's perspective.
scene direction: truck-xander pulls back from the window, goes to the wheel, although the truck is already in motion - tree-lined streets going by. anya is sitting in the passenger seat doing something with her hands.
scene direction: xander sits in the driver's seat. anya looks at him.
anya: do you know where you're going?
scene direction: xander looks at her, surprised.
anya: i've been thinking about getting back into vengeance.
scene direction: she's playing with a lollipop in its wrapper.
scene direction: xander takes his striped hat off, puts it on the dashboard.
xander: is that right?
anya: well, you know how i miss it. i'm so at loose ends since i quit. i think this is going to be a very big year for vengeance.
xander: but ... isn't vengeance kind of ... vengeful?
scene direction: anya petulant
anya: you don't want me to have a hobby.
xander: not a vengeance hobby, no! it's dangerous. people can't do anything they want. society has rules, and borders, and an end zone. it doesn't matter if...
scene direction: he hears giggling, turns.
scene direction: willow and tara in the back of the truck, snuggling and nuzzling. both wearing exaggerated eye makeup.
xander: do you mind? i'm talking to my demon.
scene direction: shot of willow in a very short black bustier, tara in a short black skirt and very revealing white blouse. tara has one leg bent and willow's hand is on her thigh. both have heavy black eye makeup and thick red lipstick.
willow: sorry.
scene direction: xander stares at them. both girls smile seductively at him. hear tara's voice although her lips don't move.
tara: we just think you're really interesting.
xander: oh, i-i'm going places.
willow: i'm way ahead of you.
scene direction: willow caressing tara's leg
scene direction: closeup of willow and tara grinning at each other, nuzzling. willow whispers in tara's ear. they both giggle.
scene direction: pan down to willow's hand stroking tara's thigh.
scene direction: xander riveted
xander: is that right?
scene direction: they look at him.
willow: watch this.
scene direction: willow puts her hand on tara's waist. tara puts her hand on willow's shoulder. they lean toward each other.
scene direction: shot of xander's wide-eyed face. kissing noises and soft moans.
scene direction: extended shot of xander staring.
tara: do you wanna come in the back with us?
scene direction: xander stares open-mouthed.
anya: oh, go on.
scene direction: xander stares at her. sexy music starts.
xander: i don't have to.
anya: i'll be fine. i think i've figured out how to steer by gesturing emphatically.
scene direction: xander looks at the road, looks at anya, looks back. gets up.
scene direction: shot of anya gesturing emphatically at the road.
scene direction: xander walks past the ice-cream-selling window in the side of the truck.
scene direction: outside, more tree-lined streets rushing by. the girls are gone.
scene direction: xander walks to the back of the truck, climbs up onto a loft-like thing, past a big pile of newspapers and other random debris. he shoves a cooler out of the way, falls down onto the floor in his basement. looks around, exasperated.
xander: girls?
scene direction: the upstairs doorknob begins rattling again. xander walks forward nervously. suddenly there's pounding on the door too. he looks up, scared.
scene direction: xander yells
xander: i know what's up there!
scene direction: pounding continues. he backs away, turns, sees the bald man holding up a plate of cheese slices.
bald man: these ... will not protect you.
scene direction: more pounding, growling. xander goes past the bald man and out the back door.
scene direction: xander is in the sunnydale high hallways, but the colors are all weird.
scene direction: everything's purple and green. weird noises like microphone feedback.
scene direction: xander pushes his way past students talking in the halls. looking over his shoulder, he can maybe see something through the other students' legs, chasing him.
xander: giles.
scene direction: giles is leaning against a wall, dressed casually, holding an apple.
giles: xander, what are you doing here?
xander: what's after me?
giles: it's because of what we did, i know that.
scene direction: giles takes a bite of the apple
scene direction: xander shakes his head in confusion
xander: what we did?
giles: hm. now, the others have gone on ahead.
scene direction: giles points down the hall
giles: now, listen very carefully. your life may depend on what i'm about to tell you. you need...
scene direction: giles' voice changes to a man speaking french. sounds like the voice on a tape in a beginning language class. giles continues talking and gesturing, but what is heard is the french.
scene direction: giles speaking french.
xander: what? go where? i don't understand.
giles: ce n'est pas le temps pour des jeux. this is not the time for games.
scene direction: anya approaches.
anya: xander.
scene direction: anya in a fake french woman's voice
anya: il faut que tu viens avec nous maintenant. on t'attends. you have to come with us now. they're waiting for you.
giles: c'est que j'ai vous dire. that's what i said.
xander: honey, i don't... i can't hear you.
scene direction: anya takes his hand.
anya: c'est pas importante. je t'escorte. it's not important. i'll take you.
giles: allons-y la. let's go.
scene direction: giles also takes xander's hand, trying to pull him down the hall. a random guy goes by on a skateboard, pushes xander down the hall.
xander: w-wait! where we going? where?
scene direction: xander looks over his shoulder as they pull/push him down the hall. struggles
xander: hey!
scene direction: people in the crowd pick him up. in the crowd can still see giles with the apple in his mouth.
xander: let go! hey!
scene direction: the final "hey" echoes.
scene change: fade to xander in green army fatigues, hands cuffed behind his back, moving through a forest. asian-type music. another guy in fatigues, holding a gun, is guarding him. an image of xander's face is overlaid over the left half of the screen.
scene change: fade to a dark room lit with red lights. soldiers bring xander in and he kneels. there's a cot at the right with a person on it.
male voice: where are you from, harris?
xander: well, the basement, mostly.
male voice: were you born there?
scene direction: camera moving toward the person on the cot.
scene direction: shot of xander looking toward the cot, a soldier guarding him in the background. xander nods.
xander: possibly.
snyder: i walked by your guidance counselor's office one time.
scene direction: the person sits up partway and it's principal snyder, with a towel around his neck.
snyder: a bunch of you were sitting there ... waiting to be shepherded.
scene direction: xander looks confused, alarmed.
snyder: i remember it smelled like dead flowers. like decay. then it hit me. the hope of our nation's future is a bunch of mulch.
xander: you know, i never got the chance to tell you how glad i was you were eaten by a snake.
scene direction: xander suddenly gets an "i shouldn't have said that" look on his face
scene direction: snyder sits up slowly. his face is all sweaty.
snyder: where are you heading?
scene direction: xander shrugs uncertainly
xander: well, i'm supposed to meet tara and willow.
scene direction: shot of hands lifting a wooden bowl.
xander: and possibly buffy's mom.
scene direction: snyder's hands lifting water from the bowl and pouring it over his bald head.
snyder: your time is running out.
xander: no, i'm just trying to get away. there's ... something i can't fight.
snyder: are you a soldier?
scene direction: xander shakes head
xander: i'm a comfortador.
scene direction: snyder leans forward so his face is illuminated.
scene direction: snyder contemptuous
snyder: you're neither. you're a whipping boy. raised by mongrels and set on a sacrificial stone.
scene direction: xander nods
xander: i'm getting a cramp.
scene direction: he stands, looks around. he's somewhere else. around a corner see the same dark-haired person/creature that previously attacked willow. it's crawling or crouching behind a trellis. it growls. xander backs away. see he's in the courtyard outside giles' apartment. he runs to giles' door, opens it, enters.
xander: giles, it's here!
giles: it's more serious than we thought.
scene direction: giles and buffy and anya looking at willow, who's in a chair still gasping and choking. they all ignore xander. hear what sounds like helicopter noises.
xander: giles!
buffy: i can fight anything. right?
anya: maybe we should slap her.
scene direction: xander runs past them, down the hall that should lead to giles' kitchen, but instead he comes out in buffy's dorm. students walking around, chattering. harsh, jangly rock music with the helicopter noise as the percussion. xander goes through the hallways and into buffy and willow's room.
xander: buffy?
scene direction: hears growling behind him. he yanks open the closet door and goes in. fights his way past the clothes and is in a dark room, horizontal-striped light like it's coming through venetian blinds. he runs through dark brick-lined hall, comes out in his basement again. stops, looks around. the music slowly fades out. there's still pounding on the upstairs door and the knob rattling. he goes toward it, up a couple of stairs, shaking his head.
scene direction: xander whispers
xander: that's not the way out.
scene direction: the door bursts open. xander looks down at himself, then back up the stairs.
dad: what the hell is wrong with you?
scene direction: xander looks chastised.
scene direction: a man silhouetted in the doorway above. it's xander's dad.
dad: you won't come upstairs? what are you ... ashamed of us? your mother's crying her guts out!
xander: you don't understand.
dad: no. you don't understand.
scene direction: dad starts down the stairs, stomping angrily
dad: the line ends here with us, and you're not gonna change that.
scene direction: xander looking down, unable to look at his dad.
dad: you haven't got the heart.
scene direction: suddenly dad shoves his hand into xander's chest. xander looks down. the hand is covered with rags. he looks up, scared. brief glimpse of a pair of feral eyes surrounded by dark stringy hair. grey skin. the person growls.
scene direction: the hand pulls xander's heart out of his chest.
scene change: cut to the real xander writhing and gasping in his sleep on the floor. pan across to giles sleeping in the chair. zoom in on giles' face.
scene change: *** commercial ***
scene direction: a pocket watch on a chain, swinging back and forth in front of a chest wearing giles' tweedy conservative clothes.
giles voiceover: you have to stop thinking.
scene change: fade to buffy's face, looking pleased. the reflection of the watch moves across her face.
giles voiceover: let it wash over you.
buffy: don't you think it's a little old-fashioned?
giles: this is the way women and men have behaved since the beginning...
scene direction: giles' apartment, with no furniture except one chair, which buffy is sitting on. giles stands in front of her with the pocket watch.
giles: ...before time. now look into the light.
scene direction: shot of the watch swinging.
scene direction: shot of buffy's face. suddenly she bursts out laughing.
scene change: cut to a park at night. a hedge cut into the shape of an elephant, covered with christmas-lights. people walking around. a circus huckster calling out.
scene direction: buffy wearing overalls and pigtails, pulling giles by the hand.
buffy: come on! come on!
scene direction: olivia walking beside giles, pushing a baby carriage. but there's no baby in it.
buffy: we're gonna miss all the good stuff.
olivia: does she always want to train this badly?
giles: well, it appears she's never heard the fable about patience.
scene direction: buffy pulls them through crowds of people. carnival booths, colorful lights.
olivia: which one is that?
giles: the, the one about the fox, and the, uh, less patient fox.
scene direction: buffy stops in front of a game booth
buffy: here, i want to, i want to!
scene direction: buffy jumping up and down
giles: yes, go ahead.
scene direction: buffy turns to the booth. there's a big coffin with a fake-looking vampire standing behind it.
scene direction: vamp bouncing
vamp: i am a vampire!
scene direction: buffy throws a yellow ball at it, misses by a mile.
scene direction: giles exasperated
giles: buffy, you have a sacred birthright to protect mankind.
scene direction: buffy turns to look at him, pouting.
giles: don't stick out your elbow.
scene direction: olivia sighs.
scene direction: buffy looks chastised. she picks up another ball.
scene direction: vamp bouncing
vamp: i am a vampire!
scene direction: buffy throws, hits it right in the chest. it falls backward.
vamp: ahh, you staked me!
scene direction: buffy spins around, grinning with delight. giles looks unimpressed.
giles: i haven't got any treats.
olivia: for god's sake, rupert, go easy on the girl.
scene direction: olivia smiling
scene direction: buffy turns to get some cotton candy.
scene direction: giles to olivia
giles: this is my business. blood of the lamb and all that.
scene direction: giles looks at buffy
giles: oh, now you're gonna get that all over your face.
scene direction: buffy turns. her face is covered in mud. the color changes as if a negative were inverted.
scene direction: the color goes back to normal. giles frowns in confusion. his face goes blurry.
giles: i know you.
scene direction: giles echoing
scene direction: spike off-screen
spike: hey!
scene direction: giles turns, sees spike standing near the entrance to his crypt.
spike: come on!
scene direction: spike gesturing
spike: you're gonna miss everything!
scene direction: spike turns and goes into the crypt
scene change: cut to giles entering the crypt. crying noises. candles are lit all around.
giles: don't push me around. you know i have a great deal to do.
scene direction: olivia sitting on a coffin next to the baby carriage, which is lying on its side. she's crying.
scene direction: black & white shot of a bunch of people with cameras, and spike looking past them at giles.
spike: i've hired myself out as an attraction.
scene direction: spike strikes a threatening pose. the people ooh and ahh, camera flashes going off
scene direction: color shot or giles staring at spike, olivia still crying in the background.
giles: sideshow freak?
scene direction: b&w shot spike flips up the collar of his coat.
spike: well, at least it's showbiz.
scene direction: spike poses again. more oohs and camera flashes from the crowd
scene direction: color shot giles moves forward, looks in confusion at olivia, back in spike's direction.
scene direction: giles very confused
giles: what am i supposed to do with all of this?
scene direction: spike off-screen
spike: you gotta make up your mind, rupes.
scene direction: b&w shot of spike.
spike: what are you wasting your time for?
scene direction: spike poses, flashbulbs
scene direction: color shot giles turning to look at spike again.
scene direction: b&w shot of spike.
spike: haven't you figured it all out yet, with your enormous squishy frontal lobes?
scene direction: spike strikes another pose, more oohs, flashbulbs
scene direction: color shot giles walking across the crypt.
giles: i still think buffy should have killed you.
scene direction: b&w s hotspike looks annoyed. he strikes a jesus-on-the-cross pose. very loud oohs, cameras flashing.
scene direction: color shot giles walking through crypt. the bald man stops him.
bald man: i wear the cheese. it does not wear me.
scene direction: he has cheese slices on his head and shoulders. he slides past giles.
giles: honestly, you meet the most appalling sorts of people. he walks on. in the background we see spike still in jesus pose, more flashbulbs going off.
scene direction: giles goes through a door and is in the bronze. young people talking, laughing, drinking. the stage is lit, but there's no band, and no music. giles walks over to a couch where willow and xander are sitting looking at old magic books. giles is suddenly holding a book.
giles: i'm so sorry i'm late. there's a great deal going on. and all at once!
scene direction: giles goes to sit on a chair opposite them
scene direction: willow nods.
willow: don't we know it. only at death's door over here, look at xander!
scene direction: she pulls back xander's jacket to show his ripped t-shirt and the bloody stain on his chest from having his heart pulled out.
xander: got the sucking chest wound swingin'.
scene direction: xander points at it, then at the stage
xander: i promised anya i'd be there for her big night.
scene direction: giles looks at the stage.
xander: now i'll probably be pushing up daisies, in the sense of being in the ground underneath them and fertilizing the soil with decomposition.
scene direction: shot of giles' face in the foreground. in the background, anya standing on stage in front of the mike, holding some papers.
anya: okay. a man ... walks into the office of a doctor.
scene direction: willow and xander go back to their books.
anya: he's wearing on his head, um...
scene change: cut to anya looking at her papers.
anya: wait, there's, there's a, there's a duck. is that right?
man in crowd: you suck!
anya: quiet! you'll miss the humorous conclusion.
giles: she's doing quite well.
willow: do you know this is your fault?
scene direction: while giles talks, anya is still in the background telling her joke.
giles: we have to think of the facts, willow. i'm very busy. i have a gig myself, you know.
scene direction: willow sighs
willow: something's after us. it's, uh, like some primal ... some animal force.
scene direction: in the background anya is doing a funny walk.
giles: that used to be us.
xander: don't get linear on me now, man.
anya: and ... then the duck tells the doctor that there's a man, that's attached to my ass.
scene direction: crowd laughs.
scene direction: xander laughs.
anya: see, it was the duck, and not the man that spoke.
scene direction: anya smiles proudly. applause
scene direction: xander applauds. willow is still looking at her book. anya turns and leaves the stage.
willow: rupert.
scene direction: giles turns to look at her.
willow: you've gotta focus. you must have some kind of explanation. if we don't know what we're fighting, i don't think we stand a chance.
scene direction: giles frowns, begins to sing.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: it's strange, it's not like anything we've faced before.
scene direction: he gets up. suddenly there's a piano player and a guitarist onstage, accompanying giles' song. people applaud as giles walks toward the stage.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: it seems familiar somehow. of course!
scene direction: drums start up. giles grabs the mike. there's both a guitar and a bass player. people cheer enthusiastically)
scene direction: giles sings
giles: the spell we cast with buffy / must have released some primal evil that's come back seeking
scene direction: giles removes glasses
giles: i'm not sure what / willow, look through the chronicles.
scene direction: willow nods, reaches for another book.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: for some reference / to a warrior beast.
scene direction: he puts his glasses on, grabs the mike again. more excited cheering as the music swells.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: i've got to warn buffy / there's every chance she might be next / xander, help willow.
scene direction: shot of willow and xander holding up cigarette lighters while reading the books.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: and try not to bleed on my couch i've just had it steam-cleaned.
scene direction: music slows.
scene direction: shot of people in the audience smiling, swaying, holding up lighters.
scene direction: giles sings
giles: no, wait...
scene direction: loud feedback. the mike goes dead and the band stops playing. giles looks confused. he gets down on his knees and starts following the microphone cord backstage. he traces it to a big pile of tangled cord, digs in it and pulls out his pocket watch on its chain.
giles: well, that was ... obvious.
scene direction: the dark-haired creature braced on the wall above him, holding a weapon.
giles: i know who you are.
scene direction: another shot of the creature. its weapon looks like a stake.
giles: and i can defeat you ... with my intellect.
scene direction: the creature approaching from behind.
giles: i ... can cripple you with my thoughts.
scene direction: it grabs his hair, puts a weapon against his forehead.
giles: of course, you underestimate me. you couldn't know.
scene direction: closeup of giles' face with blood dripping down from his forehead. hear his voice but his lips don't move.
giles: you never had a watcher.
scene change: cut to the real giles sleeping on the chair, twitching, dropping his glasses on the floor.
scene change: *** commercial ***
scene direction: fade in on buffy sleeping on the sofa, covered with a green blanket. she still has the cut on her forehead that she got in "the yoko factor".
scene direction: anya whispers off-screen
anya: buffy! wake up!
scene direction: buffy opens her eyes. she's lying on her bed in the dorm room, on her side, facing willow's bed. the cut on her forehead is gone. she frowns.
scene direction: shot of anya lying in willow's bed, under the covers.
scene direction: anya whispers
anya: buffy, you have to wake up right away!
buffy: i'm not really in charge of these things.
scene direction: buffy closes eyes
scene direction: anya anxious
anya: please wake up. oh please.
scene direction: buffy opens eyes
buffy: i need my beauty sleep. so stop it, okay?
scene direction: buffy rolls over onto her back
scene direction: the creature is hanging from the ceiling above her. it snarls at her.
scene change: cut to buffy in her bed in joyce's house, sitting up startled. the covers are rumpled around her. she lies back.
scene change: cut to buffy standing in the doorway of the bedroom, looking at the bed.
buffy: faith and i just made that bed.
scene direction: shot of the bed, still rumpled but now without buffy in it.
scene direction: tara off-screen
tara: for who?
scene direction: buffy frowns, looks to her left.
buffy: i thought you were here to tell me.
scene direction: shot of tara with her hair up, facing buffy.
scene direction: buffy looking back at bed
buffy: the guys aren't here, are they? we were gonna hang out
scene direction: buffy looks at tara
buffy: and, watch movies t...
tara: you lost them.
buffy: no.
scene direction: buffy looks confused
buffy: no. i think they need me to find them.
scene direction: shot of the digital alarm clock next to the bed, showing 7 30 am.
scene direction: buffy upset
buffy: it's so late.
tara: oh ... that clock's completely wrong. here.
scene direction: shot of tara's hands holding out the tarot card "manus". it has a picture of two hands crossed, one open, the other balled into a fist.
buffy: i'm never gonna use those.
scene direction: buffy's face in profile. tara's face out of focus in background.
tara: you think you know ... what's to come ... what you are. you haven't even begun.
scene direction: shot of the bed, now neatly made.
scene direction: buffy frowns.
buffy: i think i need to go find the others.
scene direction: she leaves.
scene direction: tara (softly) be back before dawn.
scene change: fade to a school hallway. buffy walks through the halls wearing a flowered dress. she speaks to a random guy walking past.
buffy: have you seen my friends?
scene direction: he shakes his head and walks on.
buffy: they wouldn't just disappear.
scene direction: she looks around, walks down the halls. a row of lockers. suddenly buffy notices a hole in the wall. the plaster is torn back, revealing a layer of bricks with a face-sized hole. she walks over to it.
buffy: mom?
scene direction: joyce's face appears in the hole.
joyce: oh, hi, honey.
buffy: why are you living in the walls?
joyce: oh, sweetie, no, i'm fine here. don't worry about me.
scene direction: buffy frowns, tries to see inside the hole.
buffy: it looks dirty.
joyce: well, it seems that way to you.
scene direction: joyce smiling
joyce: i made some lemonade, and i'm learning how to play mah-jong. you go find your friends.
buffy: i, i think they might be in danger.
scene direction: joyce starts to laugh. buffy looks confused.
joyce: i-i'm sorry, dear.
scene direction: joyce giggling
joyce: um, a mouse is playing with my knees.
buffy: i, i really don't think you should live in there.
scene direction: suddenly she looks over and sees xander climbing up some stairs. looks like the stairs leading to the library in uc sunnydale.
joyce: well ... you could ... probably break through the wall.
scene direction: buffy walks toward stairs. joyce watches her go.
scene direction: shot of buffy's feet, wearing sandals, walking slowly down a hall.
scene direction: shot of two men sitting at a conference table, facing each other, in a room with high ceilings and plain gray walls. on the left wall is a big map of the world. on the right, a row of cabinets. there are two empty chairs.
scene direction: in the foreground see buffy's feet.
scene direction: man on the left speaks. it's riley.
riley: hey there, killer.
scene direction: buffy off-screen
buffy: riley? you're back.
riley: i never left.
scene direction: buffy's feet walk closer, as does the camera angle.
scene direction: buffy off-screen
buffy: but how did the debriefing go?
riley: i told you not to worry about that. it went great. they made me surgeon general.
scene direction: shot of buffy looking surprised.
buffy: why didn't you come and tell me? we could have celebrated.
scene direction: shot of riley sitting in the chair, wearing a suit.
riley: oh.
scene direction: riley looks at the other man
riley: we're drawing up a plan for world domination.
scene direction: riley looks back at buffy, pleased
riley: the key element? coffeemakers that think.
scene direction: buffy frowns.
buffy: world domination? i-is that a good?
riley: baby, we're the government.
scene direction: he swings around in his chair to strike a james bond-like pose. the camera shoots him from below, through the glass tabletop. on the table is a handgun.
riley: it's what we do.
adam: she's uncomfortable with certain concepts.
scene direction: adam wearing a suit too, with no jacket
adam: it's understandable. aggression is a natural human tendency.
scene direction: adam looks at buffy
adam: though you and me come by it another way.
scene direction: shot of buffy with the dark-haired creature behind her.
buffy: we're not demons.
adam: is that a fact?
scene direction: shot of buffy. the creature is gone.
riley: buffy, we've got important work here.
scene direction: same camera angle on riley, the gun prominent in the foreground.
riley: a lot of filing, giving things names.
scene direction: buffy looks at other guy
buffy: what was yours?
adam: before adam?
scene direction: adam shakes his head. suddenly the lighting turns blue
adam: not a man among us can remember.
scene direction: buffy looks around at the blue lighting. in the background shadows are moving; noises like emergency doors slamming shut.
computer voice: the demons have escaped. please run for your lives.
adam: this could be trouble.
scene direction: adam and riley stand
riley: we better make a fort.
scene direction: adam nodding
adam: i'll get some pillows.
scene direction: adam leaves
scene direction: buffy looks very nervous. shadowy figures behind her seem to be moving closer. she looks down and sees her weapons bag lying at her feet. looks up.
scene direction: buffy gasping anxiously
buffy: wait! i have weapons!
scene direction: she sits on the floor and opens the bag. it's full of mud. buffy frowns, putting her hands in the mud and moving them around. lifts her hands, covered in mud. brings them up and smears the mud on her face. reaches in for more, rubs it all over her face as the colors invert again like a photo-negative.
scene direction: suddenly the color returns to normal and buffy looks up with her "i'm gonna kick your ass" expression.
scene direction: riley off-screen
riley: thought you were looking for your friends. okay, killer...
scene direction: shot of riley wearing regular civilian clothes.
riley: ...if that's the way you want it. i guess you're on your own.
scene direction: riley walks off
scene direction: buffy's still on the floor in the gray room surrounded by blue light.
scene direction: suddenly a beam of sunshine lights her. she gets up and walks off.
scene change: fade to buffy's feet walking along a hallway, which turns to rippled sand like on a beach. she walks past a palm tree and is in the desert from before - rocks, scraggly bushes, sand. again the woman is humming. buffy walks down a hill. the camera zooms out to see more of the same landscape with mountains in the distance. a breeze ruffles her hair and dress.
buffy: i'm never gonna find them here.
scene direction: she looks up and sees tara far off, walking toward her. tara has her hair up, wears a long pink skirt and matching top that exposes a lot of her stomach.
tara voiceover: of course not. that's the reason you came.
scene direction: tara fades out and reappears closer, then this repeats. she stops walking.
scene direction: shot of buffy and tara standing about thirty feet apart, facing each other with miles of desert stretching out behind them.
buffy voiceover: you're not in my dream.
tara voiceover: i was borrowed.
scene direction: shot of tara standing with big rocks behind her. she wears a gold necklace.
tara: someone has to speak for her.
scene direction: shot of buffy standing with rocks, bushes and mountains behind.
buffy: let her speak for herself.
scene direction: the dark-haired creature walking up behind her.
buffy: that's what's done in polite circles.
scene direction: the creature moves around to in front of buffy and finally get a good look at her. it's a dark-skinned woman with dreadlocks and long sharp fingernails. her face is painted with white or grayish paint, lines of black paint across her eyes, and she wears rags. she crouches low and walks around buffy like a wild animal. she looks like a cavewoman.
buffy: why do you follow me?
scene direction: the woman shakes her head.
first slayer: i don't.
buffy: where are my friends?
scene direction: shot of the woman backing away from buffy, still crouching down low.
first slayer: you're asking the wrong questions.
scene direction: buffy firmly
buffy: make her speak.
scene direction: the woman shakes her head again.
first slayer: i have no speech. no name. i live in the action of death, the blood cry, the penetrating wound.
scene direction: first slayer straightens up and looks buffy in the eye
first slayer: i am destruction. absolute ... alone.
scene direction: buffy frowns.
buffy: the slayer.
scene direction: the other woman looks at her.
scene direction: tara off-screen
tara: the first.
scene direction: shot of buffy's hand, holding a bunch of tarot-shaped cards. in the one on top is a scene of giles, buffy, willow, and xander in joyce's living room watching tv.
scene direction: shot of buffy looking at the card in her hand, with the mountains behind her.
buffy: i am not alone.
scene direction: shot of tara in the background, the first slayer in the middle ground, and buffy's back in the foreground.
tara: the slayer does not walk in this world.
buffy: i walk.
scene direction: side shot of the three of them.
buffy: i talk. i shop, i sneeze. i'm gonna be a fireman when the floods roll back.
scene direction: shot of the first slayer lifting her chin in anger.
scene direction: buffy off-screen
buffy: there's trees in the desert since you moved out.
scene direction: the first slayer shakes her head.
buffy: and i don't sleep on a bed of bones.
scene direction: shot of buffy's face.
scene direction: buffy firmly
buffy: now give me back my friends.
scene direction: the first slayer speaks in a very low, hoarse voice.
first slayer: no ... friends! just the kill.
scene direction: shot of buffy watching her.
first slayer: we ... are ... alone!
scene direction: the bald guy leans in between buffy and the first slayer, holding up two slices of cheese. he grins and shakes the cheese at buffy, then retreats off-screen.
buffy: that's it. i'm waking up.
scene direction: the first slayer attacks her, pushes her to the ground and tries to bash her head on it. african drum music begins.
scene direction: buffy rolls the first slayer off her and kicks at her. they both get up.
scene direction: the first slayer punches her.
scene direction: long shot of buffy falling backward from the punch, slow-motion. no music.
scene direction: music resumes and the action returns to real-time. the first slayer tries to punch down but buffy rolls to her feet and kicks her in the back. she kicks again but the first slayer ducks. buffy punches.
scene direction: long shot of the first slayer falling backward from the punch, slow-motion. no music. the first slayer starts to get up.
scene direction: one last drum-beat as the action returns to real-time. the first slayer gets up. face off.
scene direction: shot of buffy shaking her head.
buffy: it's over.
scene direction: woman humming begins again. first slayer shakes her head.
buffy: we don't do this any more.
scene direction: drums begin again. the first slayer grabs her again and they roll down a sandy hill, clutching each other and rolling over and over as the drums continue.
buffy voiceover: enough!
scene change: cut to buffy waking up on joyce's floor. she lifts her head and looks around. pan across giles, willow and xander sleeping in their spots. buffy groans and starts to get up.
scene direction: growl.
scene direction: the first slayer lands atop buffy and starts stabbing repeatedly at the floor with her stake. shot of buffy lying underneath the first slayer, rolling her eyes.
buffy: are you quite finished?
scene direction: first slayer pulls her stake out of the floor.
buffy: it's over, okay? i'm going to ignore you, and you're going to go away.
scene direction: the first slayer pulls back and buffy sits up, then stands.
buffy: you're really gonna have to get over the whole ... primal power thing.
scene direction: buffy walks toward the sofa
scene direction: shot of the first slayer staring at her.
scene direction: buffy over her shoulder
buffy: you're *not* the source of me.
scene direction: she picks up her blanket and sits back down on the sofa next to willow. another shot of the first slayer staring at her.
buffy: also, in terms of hair care, you really wanna say, what kind of impression am i making in the workplace? 'cause...
scene change: cut to the real buffy waking up on the sofa. the cut on her forehead is back. she looks around.
scene direction: shot of all four of them. giles, willow and xander awake at the same instant. they all sit up and look at each other.
scene change: fade to the four of them sitting around the kitchen table.
willow: the first slayer. wow.
xander: not big with the socialization.
willow: or the floss.
giles: somehow our joining with ... buffy and ... invoking the essence of the, the slayer's power was an affront to the source of that power.
buffy: you know, you could have brought that up to us *before* we did it.
giles: i did. i said there could be dire consequences.
buffy: yes, but you say that about chewing too fast.
scene direction: joyce enters, wearing a bathrobe.
joyce: i'm, uh, guessing i missed some fun?
willow: the spirit of the first slayer tried to kill us in our dreams.
joyce: oh, you want some hot chocolate?
scene direction: everyone says "yeah" or "yes please".
joyce: xander?
xander: yes, what, joyce?
scene direction: xander nervously
xander: uh ... buffy's mom.
joyce: be my kitchen buddy again, help me carry?
scene direction: joyce nods toward the kitchen
xander: yes. sure.
scene direction: xander nervously
xander: buffy's mom.
scene direction: giles to buffy
giles: you all right?
buffy: yeah. i think i might jump in the shower.
giles: you seem a bit, uh...
buffy: a little.
scene direction: buffy pensive
buffy: the first slayer. i never really thought about it.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: it was intense. i-i guess you guys got a taste of that, huh.
scene direction: willow nods.
xander: yeah, from now on, you keep your slayer friends out of my dreams. is that clear?
scene direction: buffy smiles.
willow: it's not good for the sleepin'.
scene direction: giles shakes his head in agreement.
buffy: ah...
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: well, at least you all didn't dream about that guy with the cheese.
scene direction: buffy walks off
scene direction: the others look up in surprise.
scene direction: buffy off-screen
buffy: i don't know *where* the hell that came from.
scene direction: the other three look at each other.
scene change: cut to buffy emerging from the stairs into the upper hallway. walks down the hall toward the bathroom. frowns, turns, looks into her bedroom. walks into the doorway, looking at her bed.
tara voiceover: you think you know ... what's to come ... what you are. you haven't even begun.
scene direction: long shot of the darkened bedroom, with buffy framed in the doorway. she slowly backs away, turns and walks out of sight.
scene direction: end.
