scene direction: episode begins. we see willow and tara's kitten playing with a small ball of yarn.
willow voiceover: tell me a story.
tara voiceover: okay. once upon a time, there was, um ... a kitty. she was very little, and she was all alone, and nobody wanted her.
willow voiceover: this is a very upsetting story.
tara voiceover: oh, oh, but it gets better.
scene change: the kitten runs off-screen. cut to a shot of her trying to crawl under a bed.
tara voiceover: 'cause one day the kitty was running around in the street and a man came, and swooped her up...
scene direction: a pair of hands comes into the shot and swoops up the kitten.
tara: and took her to the pound.
scene direction: we see tara sitting on the end of willow's bed lifting the kitten into her lap. willow is in the bed, under the covers.
tara: and at the pound there were lots of other kitties, and there were puppies, and some ferrets...
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: were there dolphins?
scene direction: tara handing kitten to willow
tara: yes. many dolphins at the pound.
willow: or was there a camel?
scene direction: tara thinks
tara: there was the front of a camel. a half camel.
scene direction: tara smiles
scene direction: willow cuddling kitten
willow: did the kitty get chosen by some nice people?
tara: well, now you ruined the ending.
willow: mmm...
scene direction: willow lets go of the kitten and it runs off
willow: i'm sleepy.
tara: do you mind if i keep the light on? i was gonna look up some spells.
willow: it's fine.
scene direction: willow pouts
willow: i don't need to be snuggled.
scene direction: willow smiles
scene direction: tara smiles back
tara: vixen!
scene direction: tara takes some books that are on the bed and piles them up on the floor.
willow: you've been spell gal night and day lately.
tara: well, i just wanna keep up with you, and i'm ... well, i just like to be useful. you know, to the gang?
scene direction: tara willow looks concerned
tara: i just ... never ... feel useful.
willow: you are. you're essential.
scene direction: tara smiles. she comes over and gets under the covers with willow, turning off the light.
tara: do you think buffy found out anything tonight?
willow: at the factory? i don't know. if there was something, i figured she'd call us.
scene direction: tara lies down, putting her head on willow's shoulder, and they snuggle up together.
scene change: cut to joyce's house, night. giles and buffy sit in the living room. they talk quietly.
giles: uh, i don't know what to say.
buffy: tell me about it.
scene direction: buffy looks toward the stairs
giles: she has no idea?
buffy: no. she thinks she's my kid sister.
giles: are you going to tell her?
buffy: how can i?
scene direction: buffy sighs, gets up
buffy: she'd freak, and that's the last thing we need.
scene direction: she walks to the doorway and looks up the stairs.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: we have to keep her safe.
scene direction: she turns and walks back into the living room.
giles: this ... woman, this, uh, whatever she was... she knows you now.
scene direction: giles buffy sits
giles: should we be thinking about ... sending dawn away?
buffy: away where?
giles: i don't know, uh ... your father's?
scene direction: buffy scoffs
buffy: yeah, he's, um ... in spain, with his secretary. living the cliche.
scene direction: buffy giles looks sympathetic.
buffy: i called him when mom got sick, he hasn't even...
giles: i'm sorry.
scene direction: beat.
buffy: when he bailed on us ... i remember, dawn cried for a week. except she didn't. she wasn't there, but ... i can still feel what it was like.
scene direction: giles puts his hand over his mouth and frowns.
buffy: they sent her to me, giles. i think ... i have to take care of her. i want to.
giles: do we tell the others?
buffy: no. no one. they-they'd act weird around her, and it's, it's safer for everyone if they don't know.
giles: yes.
scene direction: giles stands, begins to pace
giles: we have to find out who this woman is, and what she needs dawn for.
scene direction: buffy ponders this.
giles: i mean, if she comes after you- buffy: she'll come.
scene direction: giles looks toward the stairs
giles: she'll come for us.
scene change: cut to a pile of rubble that suddenly explodes upward as glory throws it off of her. she rises in the middle of the destroyed building, still wearing her red dress. she looks around angrily.
glory: okay. now i'm upset.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: exterior shot of uc sunnydale, day.
scene change: cut to inside dorm. buffy is stacking some boxes in the hallway. xander and riley are carrying a mini-fridge out of a dorm room. xander bumps his hand on the door frame.
xander: ow! thumb! necessary opposable thumb!
riley: sorry. crybaby.
buffy: you know what, you guys, just leave it here.
riley: got it.
scene direction: he and xander put down the fridge. dawn emerges from another door, carrying a stack of boxes that obscure her vision.
dawn: i don't need help.
buffy: just be careful.
scene direction: buffy turns and enters through the door dawn just exited. we see willow, anya, and giles in a dorm room, surrounded by boxes.
anya: but we just helped her move the stuff in a few days ago...
scene direction: anya turns and sees buffy
anya: ...and it was fun!
scene direction: giles reading a book
giles: people help each other out, anya. it's one of our strange customs.
buffy: giles, i noticed you're doing the smallest amount of helping that can actually be called helping.
giles: well, i saw myself in more of a ... patriarchal sort of role. you know, lots of pointing and scowling.
scene direction: giles smiles. looks to his left, points and scowls.
giles: you two, stop that!
scene direction: shot of xander and riley grappling, bent over at the waist. xander has riley in a headlock.
riley: he started it.
xander: he called me a bad name.
scene direction: xander tara looks at them and grins
xander: i think it was bad. it might've been latin.
giles: stop it, or you're going to break something.
buffy: or i'm going to break something.
scene direction: the guys suddenly let each other go and straighten up.
scene direction: we see willow and tara folding clothes, smiling at each other.
xander: still can't believe you're giving up this cherry corner suite.
scene direction: anya re-entering from hallway
anya: just a few days after we moved you in!
scene direction: buffy shrugs, tries to look casual
buffy: it's no big.
scene direction: buffy giles looks up from his book
buffy: you know, with mom not being well, i'm hardly ever here.
scene direction: buffy picks up a pile of clothes to put in a box
buffy: just figured i'd ... save a little cash for this semester, that's all.
willow: i think that's smart.
xander: still, it's hard to give up. you've got the two entrances
scene direction: xander pointing to the two doors to the room
xander: lot of opportunity for bawdy french farce, and everybody loves bawdy- buffy: where's dawn?
riley: i think she just walked out.
scene direction: riley points out one of the doors
scene direction: buffy hurrying forward
buffy: dawn!
scene direction: dawn re-enters and breezes past buffy.
dawn: some of your cds are my cds.
buffy: i know. come help me fold.
scene direction: tara smiles at them. everyone returns to packing and carrying (and reading in giles' case). willow takes a suitcase and leaves the room.
scene direction: buffy bends over to fold something and grabs her lower back with a sigh.
riley: starting to feel that fight?
scene direction: buffy and dawn fold a sheet.
buffy: nothing like gettin' your ass kicked to ... make your ass hurt.
dawn: you'll totally take her next time.
xander: 'cause you'll have backup, baby. she's messin' with all of us.
giles: yes, uh, we'll, we'll, uh, find her weaknesses, and then, uh- tara: yeah. you learn her source,
scene direction: giles grins
giles: and, uh, we'll introduce her to her insect reflection.
scene direction: everyone looks at her in confusion. tara stops smiling.
tara: um ... that, that was funny if you, um, studied taglarin mythic rites...
scene direction: tara softly
tara: and are a complete dork.
riley: oh, then how come xander didn't laugh?
scene direction: riley tara takes a box and exits
scene direction: xander not realizing he's been insulted
xander: i don't know that taglarin stuff.
riley: oh.
scene change: cut to tara walking out into the hall, shaking her head. willow approaches.
willow: hey. you wanna start taking stuff down to the car?
scene direction: tara nods
tara: yeah.
willow: okay.
scene direction: willow goes back into the dorm room. tara walks off with her box.
scene direction: tara whispering to herself
tara: stupid...
scene change: cut to willow re-entering the dorm room.
willow: okay. guys, now remember, you have to be at the bronze by eight.
scene direction: everyone looks blank.
buffy: bronze.
willow: tomorrow night! tara's birthday!
buffy: right! right.
scene direction: anya to xander
anya: we have to bring presents, right? birth is a present thing?
xander: i got something ... picked out, yeah.
scene direction: willow anxious
willow: you-you guys can all still come, right? i mean, i know there's ... this new evil and all, but...
buffy: no, no. we'll be there. i could definitely use a break from all this craziness.
scene change: cut to a woman in a hospital gown, being wheeled on a gurney through a hospital hallway. hospital noises. camera pulls back and we see a male intern pulling the gurney. ben approaches.
ben: what's the story?
intern: another crazy. got her family out there.
scene direction: intern nods toward waiting room
ben: ok, let me guess, no history of mental problems.
intern: yeah. that makes like five this month.
ben: ah, they told me sunnydale was gonna be interesting.
scene direction: intern chuckles
intern: yeah. aren't you off?
scene direction: ben looks at watch
ben: yeah, as of now. have fun.
scene direction: he turns and walks off.
scene change: cut to hospital locker room. ben enters, walks past two rows of lockers, opens a locker, begins taking his clothes off and putting them in the locker.
scene direction: pan back across the two rows of lockers. a lei-ach demon comes into view. it has gray skin broken by red bloody-looking sores, and dark sunken eyes. it opens its mouth and puts out a thick, black, forked tongue. its nose twitches as it walks forward, putting out its tongue again with a hissing noise.
scene direction: glory comes into the shot, putting one hand over the demon's mouth, the other hand on the back of its head.
glory: i need a favor.
scene direction: she pushes the demon backward out of the shot.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. anya hands a paper bag to a customer.
scene direction: anya smiling
anya: thank you for coming. we value your patronage.
scene direction: anya yelling after the departing customer
anya: please come again for more purchases!
scene direction: giles comes into the shot and puts a box on the counter.
giles: could we please be a little less effusive, anya? don't want to frighten the people.
anya: i'm just so excited. they come in, i help them ... they give us money in exchange for goods ... you give me money for working for you ... i have a place in the world now. i'm part of the system.
scene direction: anya smiles widely
anya: i'm a working gal.
scene direction: giles smiles
giles: yes. well, why don't you start organizing the shipping orders.
scene direction: giles takes the box and starts to walk off
anya: oh, no, that's boring. i just want to do the money parts.
scene direction: buffy and xander enter.
buffy: well, sure i forgot about the party. i mean, there's kind of a lot going on. and it's not ... you know ... the most thrilling social event of the season.
scene direction: xander nods
xander: yeah ... it's a big deal for willow, though. i mean, you are gonna be there?
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: barring monsters.
anya: hey, hi.
scene direction: anya leans over the counter toward xander
xander: gimme sugar. i've come to buy sugar.
scene direction: he puts his hands on anya's face and they kiss.
anya: mmm. we value your patronage.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: so, any breakthroughs on the identity of miss congeniality?
giles: well, i have narrowed it down somewhat.
scene direction: he looks down at a table. the camera pans out so we can see the large assortment of books spread out on the table.
buffy: your definition of narrow is impressively wide.
giles: well, you didn't give me much to go on. she-she looks human, so the mug shots aren't any use, and, uh, you can't be more specific about what she's like?
scene direction: buffy ponders
buffy: she was kinda like cordelia, actually.
scene direction: buffy giles nods thoughtfully
buffy: i'm pretty sure she dyes her hair.
giles: right! that one, of course. our work is done.
buffy: there must be something on her.
scene direction: buffy sits at table as xander approaches
scene direction: xander melodramatically
xander: the answer is somewhere here.
scene direction: xander stares at the book-covered table
xander: it's right in front of us and we're too blind to see it!
scene direction: xander slams his hand down on the table
scene direction: buffy gives him an exasperated look. giles rolls his eyes.
xander: i'm helping, i'm reading,
scene direction: xander sits, whispers
xander: i'm quiet.
scene direction: giles takes a box and begins climbing some stairs to the loft. buffy and xander sit at the table looking at books.
buffy: so ... what'd you get her?
xander: huh?
buffy: tara. you said you got a present already.
xander: yeah, that was a tangled web of lies, sweetie. i'm not really sure what kind of thing she'd ... i mean, i don't really know her that well.
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: i know.
scene direction: xander quickly
xander: i mean, she's nice.
scene direction: buffy quickly
buffy: yeah! yeah, nice ... nice. i-it's just, i-i sort of...
xander: i don't necessarily get her ... but she's really nice.
buffy: yeah. there's ... just that thing.
scene direction: xander agreeing
xander: that thing.
buffy: that ... thing of not understanding- xander: half of what she says?
buffy: as for example. but she's super nice.
xander: you betcha.
scene direction: they continue looking at books.
buffy: think there'll be a lot of wiccas there, heavy wiccan crowd?
xander: well, that's sort of her deal. her and willow are all wiccie. swingin' with the wiccan lifestyle.
buffy: which is cool.
xander: well, yeah.
buffy: i just hope we fit in, not awkward.
xander: with willow it's like, she's got this ... whole new thing in her life. but she's still willow, so i can always figure her out. but tara, i just know she likes willow, and she already has one of those.
scene direction: buffy groans and slams a book shut.
buffy: ugh! i have a present-buying headache. tara's damn birthday is just one too many things for me to worry about.
xander: relax. you should take a few minutes.
scene direction: xander jerks his thumb toward the training room in the back
xander: train or stretch out. you should do something to ... work off the tension.
scene change: cut to buffy punching spike in the face. then she kicks him. we see they're in his crypt. spike kicks buffy in the stomach, then punches her in the face, once, twice, thrice. on the fourth swing buffy grabs his arm and punches him with her other hand. she lands a roundhouse and then an uppercut. she kicks spike in the stomach and then does a back-flip, kicking him in the jaw.
scene direction: spike spins, tries a circle kick but buffy ducks it. she blocks a punch, then he grabs her by the throat from behind, holding one of her hands. she kicks him in the face over her shoulder, twists out of his grip and throws him. he lands sitting on his armchair and it slides backward until it hits the wall. buffy leaps up to stand on the two arms of the armchair, punches spike in the face four times. he pushes her legs apart and she falls onto his lap. spike grabs her butt and buffy wraps her legs around his neck as he stands up. then she flings herself backward, landing with her hands on the floor, and uses her legs to flip spike over by the neck. she lands on top of him. spike throws her off and she slides against a wall. spike stands up. buffy crouches, panting.
spike: you want me, slayer, come and get me.
buffy: oh, i'm coming. i'm coming right-
scene direction: buffy lunges up toward him
scene change: cut to spike and harmony in bed.
harmony: -now!
scene direction: spike is on top of harmony, covered by a blanket, both of them naked and panting. harmony caresses spike's face.
harmony: what are you thinking?
spike: all about you, baby.
harmony: aww.
scene direction: harmony pulls spike's head down to her shoulder
harmony: you're my little lamb.
scene direction: cut back to the magic shop. giles comes back down from the loft.
giles: come up with anything yet?
xander: well, candles, maybe, or bath oils of some kind.
buffy: i saw a really cute sweater at bloomy's ... but, i think i want me to have it.
giles: and you are talking about what on earth?
buffy: tara's birthday. we're at a loss.
giles: you're in a magic shop, and you can't think what tara would like. i believe you're both profoundly stupid.
xander: well, we don't really know ... the kind of things witches like. what, are we gonna get her some cheesy crystal ball?
giles: bloody well better not. i've got mine already wrapped.
scene direction: a youngish guy with blond hair and a beard (donny) is looking at the shelves. now he turns and looks at the books on the table in front of buffy and xander.
donny: uh, are all these magic books?
giles: uh, private collection. uh, books for sale are against the walls over there.
scene direction: giles gestures with his coffee cup, then walks toward the counter
scene direction: donny continues looking through books on the table.
donny: so all these books got spells in 'em? turn people into frogs, things like that?
scene direction: everyone looks dubiously at him. we see anya behind the cash register.
xander: yeah, we're building a race of frog people. it's a good time.
scene direction: donny grins.
donny: so, uh...
scene direction: donny gestures at them
donny: you all witches? hey, don't do a spell on me now.
scene direction: donny laughs
giles: was there something in particular you were looking for?
scene direction: donny continues chuckling. the door opens and willow and tara enter, laughing.
willow: her insect reflection. that is so good.
tara: i just thought that'd be funny, you know if her center of power was-.
donny: whatta you know.
scene direction: tara sees him and stops laughing, looks alarmed.
donny: what's the matter? you don't have a hug for your big brother?
scene direction: willow looks surprised. tara looks upset. blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: fade in on the same scene. tara still looks upset. willow looks at her.
willow: brother?
scene direction: shot of buffy and xander still sitting at the table, watching.
tara: willow, this is
scene direction: tara stutters
tara: donny.
scene direction: willow walks forward. tara follows, looking uncomfortable.
willow: hi.
scene direction: donny shakes willow's hand, smiling
donny: nice to meet you.
tara: and, uh, these are my-my friends.
scene direction: donny looks back at the others, who nod and wave.
donny: what, uh, all of you hang out? wow. that's more people than you met in high school.
scene direction: donny gives tara a friendly punch on the arm
tara: how did you fi - i, i mean, how come you came?
donny: well, duh, birthday girl. uh, we came down in the camper, been all over the campus.
tara: we?
scene direction: tara and willow turn as the door opens and a man walks in (mr. maclay), followed by a girl about tara's age (cousin beth).
donny: look what i found!
scene direction: donny gesturing at tara
tara: uh, dad, hi.
scene direction: tara walks forward. willow watches
mr. maclay: well, here's my girl.
scene direction: tara hugs her dad awkwardly. we see giles walking forward, as the others watch the reunion scene.
tara: s-such a s-surprise.
donny: yes.
tara: cousin beth.
beth: hey.
mr. maclay: one of your dorm-mates said i might ... find you here.
scene direction: mr. maclay looking around
tara: oh. oh, um,
scene direction: tara turning toward the others
tara: these are, these are friends. um, this is mr. giles, um, he runs the shop.
scene direction: shot of willow smiling.
giles voiceover: how do you do?
mr. maclay: pleasure. well, i, i don't mean to interrupt your plans, i know we've come on you kind of suddenly, but i thought we could have dinner.
tara: okay.
mr. maclay: why don't i pick you up at six, and we'll ...
scene direction: mr. maclay glances at the others
mr. maclay: do some catching up.
tara: yes, sir.
scene direction: mr. maclay to the others
mr. maclay: forgive me for running out. we're double-parked.
scene direction: giles gestures with his coffee cup like "that's okay". mr. maclay, cousin beth, and donny leave. tara watches anxiously.
scene direction: donny waving from doorway
donny: nice to meet you all.
scene direction: willow waves and smiles back.
scene direction: tara walks farther into the shop, toward willow.
willow: that's so weird. your ... whole family.
scene direction: tara smiles nervously
tara: yeah.
scene direction: shot of buffy and xander exchanging a look.
scene direction: willow os
willow: they seem nice.
tara: you know, they-they're okay. families are always- willow:
scene direction: tara understandingly
tara: they make you crazy.
tara: usually. wanna get into research mode?
willow: sure.
scene direction: they move off.
scene change: cut to interior foyer of joyce's house, day. buffy enters through the front door, tossing her keys onto a table.
scene direction: buffy calling
buffy: honey, i'm home.
scene direction: riley coming down the stairs
riley: did you have a good day at work?
buffy: it's a rat race.
scene direction: they kiss.
riley: i squared away the rest of your stuff. wouldn't even know you ever left.
buffy: oh, you're a god. you're like the ... god of boyfriends.
riley: nah, i just like it when you owe me favors.
buffy: well, this earns you a big favor. there could be outfits.
riley: ooh. be still my heart.
scene direction: they kiss again. dawn emerges from the other room, carrying a bag.
dawn: see ya later.
buffy: whoa! whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, where do you think you're going?
dawn: i'm going to melinda's for dinner.
buffy: since when?
dawn: now-ish.
buffy: you can't. i-it's not safe for you to walk there.
dawn: it's just across the street. what is the big deal, i'm just gonna go- buffy: no. it's family night.
scene direction: dawn glances at riley
dawn: and besides, melinda's a bad influence. i don't like you hanging out with someone that ... short.
scene direction: dawn annoyed
dawn: i am so glad you're moving back into the house. this is the source of my gladness.
scene direction: she stalks off. buffy sighs.
buffy: she makes me crazy.
scene direction: buffy walks past riley into the living room
riley: that's ... kinda the word i was searching for.
scene direction: buffy sits on sofa
buffy: what? she shouldn't be going over there.
riley: yeah, a lot of young people nowadays are experimenting with shortness. gotta nip that in the bud.
buffy: she ... can't be running out whenever she'd like.
scene direction: riley walks forward
riley: it's more than that.
buffy: what do you mean?
scene direction: riley sits next to her, shakes his head
riley: you tell me.
buffy: we all have to be careful. this ... demon chick is ... exciting and new. i don't know what i'm up against.
riley: if we're in trouble here i could contact graham, maybe get the government boys on it- buffy: no! no, i-i-i don't want them anywhere near this.
scene direction: riley annoyed
riley: just a suggestion.
buffy: look, the fewer people that are involved, the safer i will feel.
riley: every time i think i'm getting close to you ...
scene direction: riley shakes head
riley: i gotta take off.
scene direction: riley gets up
scene direction: buffy gets up to follow
buffy: wait! what?
scene direction: riley walking toward front door
riley: i'll call you later.
buffy: riley!
scene direction: buffy he stops walking
buffy: i *want* you to help. i'm not- riley: yeah. know you got a lot on your mind. you decide you wanna let me in on any of it,
scene direction: buffy opens door
buffy: let me know. i'll come running.
scene direction: he exits. buffy looks troubled.
scene change: cut to exterior sunnydale dorm, day.
scene change: cut to inside. tara enters her room, stops when she sees her dad standing there. he has his arms folded, staring at her roomful of witchy stuff.
mr. maclay: the door wasn't locked. i was a little early.
scene direction: mr. maclay looks around
mr. maclay: i suppose you ... wanted me to see all these ...
scene direction: mr. maclay picks up a large crystal and examines it
mr. maclay: toys.
scene direction: mr. maclay puts crystal down
mr. maclay: you don't even try to hide it anymore. i'd hoped maybe you'd gotten over the whole witchcraft thing. that if we let you go, you'd ... get it out of your system.
scene direction: mr. maclay puts hands in pockets
mr. maclay: then they told me to look for you in ...
scene direction: mr. maclay disgusted
mr. maclay: that store.
tara: i didn't - i, i didn't kn-know that you were coming.
mr. maclay: of course we came. we haven't heard from you in months. your birthday's getting closer and closer. you know what that means.
scene direction: tara upset
tara: i don't think it's ...
scene direction: tara stammers
tara: it, it won't mean that- mr. maclay: you're turning twenty.
scene direction: tara walks toward her
tara: it's the same age your mother was when she... do your friends even know?
scene direction: tara softly
tara: y-yes.
mr. maclay: are you lying to me?
scene direction: mr. maclay tara looks down
mr. maclay: tara, you're coming home with us. you know it's the only way.
tara: home?
mr. maclay: you can't control what's going to happen. you have evil inside of you and it will come out. and letting yourself work all this magic is only going to make it worse. where do you think that power comes from?
tara: it ... it doesn't feel evil ... sir.
mr. maclay: evil never does.
scene direction: mr. maclay tara looks down, upset
mr. maclay: i don't feel much like eating right now.
scene direction: mr. maclay starts to walk past her
mr. maclay: i'll give you some time, but we need to be gone by morning.
scene direction: mr. maclay walks to the door. we see him unfocused in the background; in foreground tara looking sad
mr. maclay: your family loves you, tara, no matter what. how do you think your friends are going to feel when they see your true face?
scene change: cut to the lei-ach demon asleep or unconscious. something hits its face and it begins to wake. the camera pulls back slowly and we see that the demon is standing, chained to a clothes-rack, surrounded by fur coats. its nose twitches. a shoe flies into the shot and hits the demon in the face, and it growls.
scene direction: glory os
glory: finally. i thought you were gonna nap the whole day away.
scene direction: glory demon growls and struggles
glory: stop whining.
scene direction: we see that they're in a large walk-in closet with clothes racks on all four walls. glory stands in the middle of the room, now wearing a shiny green (leather?) dress. she has her previous red dress on a hanger, which she now hangs up.
glory: you know, i remember when the lei-ach were a proud warrior race, not sneaking around hospitals looking for weak sickly types to suck the bone marrow from.
scene direction: glory demon growls and struggles
glory: but ... let's talk about my problems for thirty seconds, if that's perfectly all right with you.
scene direction: she walks toward the demon and we see a vanity table against one wall. glory kneels on the chair, leans her hands on the table and talks to her reflection in the mirror.
glory: blonde ... short ... strong for a human ...
scene direction: glory turns back around, sits on chair, speaks angrily to demon
glory: and massively rude! broke my shoe, took my monk, do you have any idea who i'm talking about?
scene direction: the demon growls and grunts.
glory: a slayer? oh god, please don't tell me i was fighting a vampire slayer!
scene direction: glory puts one hand to her forehead
glory: how unbelievably common! if i had friends, and they heard about this ...
scene direction: glory shot of the demon looking like it's going to fall asleep again
glory: and you know she's going around telling everybody, i mean she probably just-
scene direction: glory leaps up and grabs the demon by the throat
glory: pay attention! i am great and i am beautiful, and when i walk into a room all eyes turn to me, because my name is a holy name, and you will listen!
scene direction: glory removes her hand from demon's throat, strokes his hair with both hands
glory: get your friends ... find the girl ... kill the girl ... okay baby?
scene direction: glory demon nods. she smiles and looks closer at it
glory: you have the cutest little suppurating sores! has anyone ever told you that?
scene change: cut to some sort of irregularly shaped crystal ball. camera pulls out and we see tara sitting in her room, staring sadly at the crystal. behind her the door opens and willow enters. tara doesn't turn.
willow: hey.
scene direction: tara turning
tara: hey.
willow: was dinner fun?
scene direction: tara stands, nodding.
willow: well, there's scoobyage afoot. giles called a meeting about our spankin' new menace.
tara: oh ... y-you should go, they don't need me for that. you can fill me in.
scene direction: willow walks toward her
willow: no, no, you have to come. this demon chick is supposed to be really powerful, and i was thinking. maybe we could try that, that spell, you know, the one to find demons?
tara: that didn't work.
willow: yeah ... but we only tried it once, and i-i think i got some ingredients wrong.
tara: well, i-i'm tired. maybe we can do it tomorrow?
willow: you sure you don't wanna- tara: look, my family's here, okay, i can't just-
scene direction: willow pauses
willow: not everything is about your friends and stuff.
scene direction: willow makes a face
willow: sorry.
scene direction: willow backs away from tara, starts walking to the door
tara: no! no, i mean...
scene direction: tara willow turns back
tara: there's just so much ... going on. it's just ... i'm, i'm really tired.
scene direction: willow nods
willow: okay.
tara: i'll see you in the morning. you can fill me in.
willow: great. we'll be demon hunters.
scene direction: willow leaves
scene direction: tara turns, hunts through some books, picks one up and leafs through it, frowning. she finds what she's looking for and looks up with a calculating expression.
scene change: cut to magic shop. buffy, anya and xander sitting around the table. we see dawn in the background looking at a bookshelf. willow enters.
willow: hey. am i late? did i miss any exposition?
scene direction: giles enters the shot from the right
giles: no, no, no, no, nothing earth-shattering to relate.
scene direction: giles leans his hands on the back of a chair as willow sits
giles: i just have a few thoughts, and, uh, wanted to make sure that we were all on the same page.
dawn: can i buy one of these?
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: no.
dawn: with my own money?
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: i let you come, now sit down and look studious.
scene direction: dawn looks annoyed, walks toward the table and out of the shot. the camera pans past the bookshelves and around a corner.
scene direction: giles os
giles: well, first of all, i want to talk to you about ... safety. um, this creature could be- we see tara hiding around the corner, listening.
scene direction: buffy os, fading
buffy: will be.
scene direction: giles os, fading
giles: will be coming after buffy, and possibly all of us.
scene direction: tara whispering
tara: blind cadria, desolate queen, work my will upon them all. your curse upon them, my obeisance to you.
scene direction: she holds up her hand and blows on it. red dust (?) flows out of her hand. cut back to the other room, where giles is sitting down with the others around the table. we see the tendril of red floating into the room from tara's hiding place, toward the table.
giles: now, i may have a lead on this monk that buffy spoke of. there, there are a few orders that i-i've read up on- the red dust turns yellow and floats into the middle of the table, then sends out shoots, one for each willow, buffy, dawn, giles, anya and xander. it hits them in the eyes and they all simultaneously flinch back. a pause, then giles continues, looking confused.
giles: i-i'm sorry, where was i?
buffy: the monk.
giles: yes, um, i'd like us all to start looking at these orders, i-it's possible whichever one this monk belonged to was wiped out entirely...
scene direction: his voice fades out. we see tara retreating backward, watching them. blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: fade in on interior of willy's bar. pan across various people and demons drinking at tables. pan over to the bar. the bartender (not willy) paces behind it.
bartender: you shouldn't be coming in here.
scene direction: bartender turns and takes a glass from a shelf
bartender: you got a rep with these monsters.
scene direction: bartender puts glass on the bar, shakes head
bartender: but you come in here...
scene direction: bartender turns and gets a bottle
bartender: night after night.
scene direction: bartender pours into the glass, looks up at the customer
bartender: are you lookin' to get killed?
scene direction: shot of riley sitting on a bar stool, watching the bartender pour.
riley: i come for the ambiance.
scene direction: riley picks up glass, looks around
riley: what can i say? this place just reeks of class.
scene direction: riley drinks the shot
bartender: yeah, well, if willy was here- riley: well, willy's not here.
scene direction: bartender puts glass down
bartender: hit me.
scene direction: bartender scowls and pours.
female voice: drinking alone?
scene direction: a woman with long dark hair and a low-cut blouse (sandy) walks up next to riley.
sandy: it's not a good sign.
scene direction: sandy sits on the stool next to him
riley: so they tell me.
scene direction: riley looks at her
riley: i buy you a drink, neither one of us has that problem anymore, now do we?
scene direction: riley sips his drink
sandy: vodka tonic.
scene direction: riley to bartender
riley: vodka tonic.
scene direction: bartender puts a napkin in front of sandy and walks off.
scene direction: sandy to riley
sandy: i'm sandy.
riley: riley.
scene direction: we hear the bartender pouring sandy's drink.
sandy: this place is such a dive.
riley: no no, it's great. you just have to close your eyes,
scene direction: riley sandy chuckles
riley: plug up your nostrils, it's fine.
sandy: we ... could go somewhere else. someplace more ... private.
scene direction: riley sighs, stares off into the distance
riley: ohhhh, sandy, sandy. it's no good. my heart belongs to another. besides,
scene direction: riley looks at her again
riley: i don't go out with vampires.
scene direction: sandy narrows her eyes in annoyance and uses her straw to stab at the ice in her drink.
scene direction: riley to bartender
riley: never interested in my intellect.
scene change: cut to interior of spike's crypt. spike sits in his armchair holding his mannequin head with the long blonde wig, caressing its cheek. the door opens and he quickly hides the head under his chair as harmony enters, carrying several shopping bags.
harmony: hi baby!
scene direction: spike bored
spike: hello, sweetbreads. have fun?
harmony: uhh, it was so exciting. you wouldn't believe it. i went to april fool's, and absolutely everything was on sale.
spike: you *paid* for it?
scene direction: harmony unpacking bags
harmony: oh, no. i just killed the clerk. still, a bargain's a bargain.
scene direction: harmony spike frowns and shakes his head
harmony: oh, i ran into carol beets. you know. she sired brandon, brandon from the sewer gang ... and she said, the lei-ach demon...
scene direction: harmony happily
harmony: was recruiting his brethren to kill the slayer!
scene direction: spike suddenly paying attention
spike: how's that?
harmony: apparently, he got recruited by some big nether-wig and now he's on a mission.
scene direction: harmony spike looks thoughtful
harmony: you think they might actually do it? kill her?
scene direction: spike pondering
spike: god, that would be ... pleasant.
harmony: well, if they do, i think we should do something.
scene direction: harmony spike jumps up
harmony: like a gift basket or something.
scene direction: harmony spike grabs his jacket
harmony: where are you going?
spike: to get a decent seat.
scene direction: spike puts on jacket
spike: if the slayer's gonna die ... i'm gonna watch.
scene direction: spike exits
scene change: cut to tara walking across campus. it's dark. she looks over her shoulder several times. then she sees cousin beth approaching. beth looks surprised and pleased.
beth: tara.
tara: beth, what are you- beth: i-i was looking for you.
tara: i'm sorry we didn't get to have dinner.
beth: i just ... wanted to see if everything was okay.
scene direction: beth tara smiles
beth: see if you needed any help with anything. packing.
scene direction: tara stops smiling
tara: beth, i'm not, i'm n-not
scene direction: tara stutters
tara: coming back with you.
beth: you're not?
tara: i-i don't think so.
beth: you ... selfish bitch!
tara: what?!
beth: you don't care the slightest bitty bit about your family, do you? your dad's been worried sick about you every day since you've been gone. there's a, a house that needs taking care of ... donny and your dad having to do for themselves while you're down here living god knows what kind of lifestyle.
scene direction: beth tara looks upset
beth: i can't wait till your little friends find out the truth about you. and they will, you know. no matter how innocent you act, they'll see.
scene direction: tara firmly
tara: no they won't.
beth: they will. unless you ... do some kind of spell on them ...
scene direction: beth sees tara's face
beth: you did!
tara: n-no!
beth: you did something to them. i'm telling your father.
scene direction: she starts to turn away. tara grabs her arm.
tara: no! no, it wasn't anything!
beth: you think you can just go around cursing people? your dad's gonna pop.
tara: it was just so they wouldn't see. so-so-so they wouldn't see the demon part of me.
scene direction: tara teary
tara: please don't tell dad. it's harmless.
scene change: cut to buffy in her workout room, doing some stretches on the floor.
scene change: cut to willow in the magic shop, taking a book off a shelf. there's a knock on the door.
willow: tara?
scene direction: willow goes to the door and opens it. we see three lei-ach demons standing there, snarling. willow doesn't see them. she looks around the doorway in confusion, then closes the door and turns away.
scene direction: willow to herself
willow: i thought i heard something.
scene direction: willow shrugs and walks off
scene direction: shot of the lead lei-ach demon grinning. blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: fade in on ucs campus, still night. tara sits on a bench while cousin beth scolds her.
beth: don't you see how out of control you are? you've been lying to these people for a year, and now you've put a spell on them, is that right?
scene direction: beth shakes head
beth: is that a human thing to do? now i'm telling your father. if he doesn't force you to come home, and i think he should, i know he's going to tell your friends the truth. if i were you, i'd tell them first. and then i'd tell them goodbye.
scene change: cut to magic shop. dawn is playing with a glass snow-ball, shaking it to make the snowflakes move. a lei-ach demon comes up right behind her, but she doesn't notice. another demon walks across the foreground, toward the table, where anya is stacking up some books.
anya: do i get paid overtime for this?
scene direction: anya gets up and walks right past the demon, not noticing it
scene direction: giles os
giles: certainly not.
scene direction: giles comes into the shot, walking past the demon as a second demon joins it
giles: dawn, would you close the door?
scene direction: we see willow and xander sitting at the table, studying books as the two demons walk past them, staring at them.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: i didn't open it.
scene direction: the lead demon turns, sniffing, and extends its tongue as it moves off toward the back.
scene change: cut to buffy in the workout room, punching a punching bag. she pauses to do some arm stretches. we see the demons walk in behind her. slow eerie music. buffy frowns and looks toward the door.
scene direction: shot of the room from buffy's pov - it's empty, no demons.
scene direction: buffy turns back to the punching bag, doing some shoulder rolls, making a face as if she's sore. we see the lead demon coming up behind her.
scene direction: suddenly buffy whirls around and blocks as the demon tries to grab her. the music changes to fast fight-music. buffy falls to the floor with the demon on top of her. we see a second demon standing beside them.
buffy: giles!
scene direction: shot of buffy with her hands in front of her, pushing at the demon, but we don't see the demon.
scene direction: shot of giles getting up from his desk as buffy yells.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: something's in here!
scene direction: shot of xander getting up as well. xander rushes toward the back. the third demon stops him before he reaches the doorway, grabs him by the upper arms as he struggles.
scene direction: shot of willow getting up, staring in confusion.
scene direction: shot of xander struggling against what looks like empty air.
scene direction: dawn runs up behind giles.
scene direction: xander flies backward as the demon throws him. he lands on his back on the floor, grabbing at his neck, trying to grab the demon's hands as it chokes him. anya turns from the bookshelf and comes forward.
scene direction: willow grabs a chair. anya grabs something else from the counter (a crystal ball?).
scene direction: willow uses the chair to whack at the area on top of xander (we still don't see the demon). xander sighs as the demon lets go of his neck.
anya: where'd it go?
scene direction: willow looks around, suddenly goes flying backward.
scene direction: giles pushes dawn toward his desk.
giles: under there, go.
dawn: willow?
scene direction: dawn crawls under the desk
scene direction: cut back to buffy still wrestling with the first demon. the workout room door opens and spike enters, grinning. buffy breaks out of the demon's grasp and shoves it backward, off of her. as she stands up, the second demon grabs her around the waist from behind. spike stops grinning as the first demon gets up. spike rolls his eyes in exasperation and hurries forward. he tackles the first demon and pulls it aside, landing on the floor on his back with the demon on top of him.
scene direction: buffy punches the second demon over her shoulder, then flips it, grabs it and shoves it against the wall. it slumps down and is still.
scene direction: shot of the workout room from buffy's pov - it's empty. she rushes toward the door. shot of spike still on the floor with the demon in a stranglehold.
spike: you're welcome!
scene direction: the demon punches him in the face.
scene direction: buffy enters the main shop area and runs forward.
anya: where'd it go?!
scene direction: anya swinging her weapon around randomly
scene direction: shot of giles suddenly reeling backward as the unseen demon punches him.
scene direction: shot of buffy looking around.
scene direction: anya retreats behind the counter and lifts her weapon cautiously.
xander: it's over there!
giles: how many are there?
anya: i've already been injured once this month!
buffy: shut up!
scene direction: buffy music stops. silence as buffy looks around.
scene direction: the front door opens and tara enters. she walks forward a few steps, looking anxious.
tara: buffy, behind you!
scene direction: we see a demon standing immediately behind buffy. she turns just as it grabs her and throws her onto the table. she rolls off the other side of the table onto the floor.
scene direction: cut back to the workout room. the demon punches spike in the face several times; he flies backward and hits the wall. he notices a rack full of weapons hanging on the wall and grabs one. it looks a bit like a scythe, only with a short handle. the demon rushes at spike but he kicks it and it falls to the floor. spike lifts the weapon and chops downward.
scene direction: cut back to the shop as buffy stands up.
buffy: tara, where is it?
scene direction: buffy looking around
buffy: can you see it?
tara: oh, god.
scene direction: tara comes forward as the demon punches buffy in the face. punching noises continue as tara rushes into the middle of the room and stops, looking down to concentrate.
scene direction: tara panting
tara: blind cadria, lift your veil. give evil form...
scene direction: tara the demon turns away from buffy to glare at tara
tara: ...and break my spell.
scene direction: we see a light flash in buffy's eyes and suddenly she can see the demon, which is rushing at tara. it hits her in the face; she goes down. the demon turns back to buffy. she punches it, then it grabs her arm and throws her to the floor. she rolls over several times.
scene direction: tara's dad enters, followed by donny and beth.
scene direction: the demon stands over tara, who is still lying on the floor.
mr. maclay: tara!
scene direction: the demon looks up, rushes toward mr. maclay. he falls backward onto the floor. buffy, still on the floor, trips the demon and it falls on its stomach across the three steps up to the higher store level.
scene direction: buffy flips up to her feet and puts one foot on the back of the demon's neck, gives it a shove. we hear the crack as the demon's neck breaks.
scene direction: shot of mr. maclay sprawled on the floor staring.
scene direction: shot of dawn peeking out from under the desk. giles gives her his hand and helps her up.
mr. maclay: what in god's name is that?
scene direction: spike enters from the back.
spike: lei-ach demon.
scene direction: spike everyone looks at him
spike: fun little buggers. big with the marrow-sucking.
scene direction: mr. maclay gets up. shot of tara sitting on the floor, looking guilty.
mr. maclay: i don't understand.
scene direction: buffy arms folded, looking down at tara
buffy: i'm not sure i do either.
tara: i'm sorry. i'm s-s-so sorry.
scene direction: tara sniffling
tara: i was, i was trying to hide.
scene direction: willow comes forward and kneels by tara.
tara: i didn't want you to see ... what i am.
willow: tara, what?
buffy: what do you mean, what you are?
scene direction: tara tries to speak but can't.
scene direction: mr. maclay os
mr. maclay: demon. the women in our family...
scene direction: mr. maclay everyone looks up at him
mr. maclay: have demon in them. her mother had it. that's where the magic comes from.
scene direction: tara looks down, then looks up at willow, who stares at her.
mr. maclay: we came to take her home before...
scene direction: mr. maclay sighs
mr. maclay: well, before things like ...
scene direction: mr. maclay points at the dead demon
mr. maclay: this started happening.
giles: you cast a spell on us, to keep us from seeing your ... demon side.
scene direction: giles to buffy
giles: that's why we couldn't see our attackers.
scene direction: buffy looks behind her at dawn.
buffy: nearly got us killed.
tara: i'll go.
scene direction: tara scrambles to her feet. to buffy
tara: i'm very sorry.
mr. maclay: the camper's outside.
willow: wait! go?
scene direction: willow grabs tara's elbow
willow: i, she just did a spell that went wrong. it-it was just a mistake.
mr. maclay: that's not the point and it's not your concern. she belongs with us. we know how to control her ... problem.
scene direction: willow looks at tara in distress.
willow: tara ... look at me.
scene direction: willow tara does.
willow: i, i trusted you more than anyone in my life. was all that just a lie?
scene direction: tara teary
tara: no!
willow: well, do you wanna leave?
mr. maclay: it's not your decision, young lady.
scene direction: willow sharply to him
willow: i know that!
scene direction: willow more softly, to tara
willow: do you wanna leave?
scene direction: tara shakes her head, crying.
mr. maclay: you're going to do what's right, tara. now, i'm taking you out of here before somebody *does* get killed.
scene direction: mr. maclay tara wipes her face on her sleeve
mr. maclay: the girl belongs with her family. i hope that's clear to the rest of you.
scene direction: willow looks anxiously at tara.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: it is.
scene direction: shot of buffy narrowing her eyes at tara.
buffy: you want her, mr. maclay? you can go ahead and take her.
scene direction: shot of tara looking sad, as if that's what she expected.
scene direction: shot of mr. maclay nodding in satisfaction.
scene direction: shot of buffy whirling around to face mr. maclay, putting her hands on her hips.
buffy: you just gotta go through me.
scene direction: tara looks up in amazement as hope begins to grow.
scene direction: mr. maclay os
mr. maclay: what?
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: you heard me.
scene direction: shot of buffy staring him down, looking very tough.
buffy: you wanna take tara out of here against her will? you gotta come through me.
dawn: and me!
scene direction: tara smiles.
scene direction: dawn walks up to stand beside buffy. they both give mr. maclay the same steely glare.
mr. maclay: is this a joke?
scene direction: mr. maclay steps down one of the stairs
mr. maclay: i'm not gonna be threatened by two little girls.
dawn: you don't wanna mess with us.
buffy: she's a hair-puller.
scene direction: giles walks up behind them.
giles: and ...
scene direction: giles puts on his glasses
giles: you're not just dealing with, uh, two little girls.
scene direction: tara smiles even more.
xander: you're dealing with all of us.
spike: 'cept me.
xander: 'cept spike.
spike: i don't care what happens.
mr. maclay: this is insane. you people have no right to interfere with tara's affairs. *we* ... are her blood kin! who the hell are you?
scene direction: shot of giles, dawn, buffy, willow, tara, xander, and anya all standing together in a group, with spike in the background.
buffy: we're family.
scene direction: tara smiles through tears. she looks at willow, who smiles back.
scene direction: mr. maclay looks angry.
donny: daaad. you -- you gonna let 'em just...
scene direction: donny stomps forward
donny: tara, if you don't get in that car, i swear by god i will beat you down.
xander: and i swear by your full and manly beard, you're gonna break something trying.
scene direction: xander donny looks cowed
beth: well. i hope you'll all be happy hanging out with a disgusting demon.
scene direction: the same shot of the whole scooby gang spread out in a row. anya, the farthest back, raises her hand.
anya: e-excuse me. what kind?
beth: what?
anya: what kind of demon is she? there's a lot of different kinds. some are very, very evil. and some have been considered to be useful members of society.
scene direction: anya smiles proudly. xander turns to smile back at her.
beth: well, i-i ... what does it matter?
mr. maclay: evil is evil.
anya: well, let's just narrow it down.
scene direction: anya xander nods
spike: ohhh.
scene direction: spike looks around
spike: why don't i make this simple.
scene direction: spike walks forward and taps tara on the shoulder. when she turns, he punches her in the face.
scene direction: both tara and spike reel backwards in pain. tara grabs her nose, spike his head.
spike: oww!
scene direction: willow angry
willow: hey!
scene direction: willow suddenly realizing
willow: hey...
scene direction: tara both hands over her face
tara: he hit my nose!
willow: and it hurt! uh, him, i mean.
scene direction: tara looks at her in surprise.
scene direction: buffy to mr. maclay
buffy: and that only works on humans.
scene direction: buffy willow smiles
spike: there's no demon in there. that's just a family legend, am i right?
scene direction: spike mr. maclay looks angry
spike: just a bit of spin to keep the ladies in line.
scene direction: spike smirks
spike: oh, you're a piece of work. i like you.
scene direction: tara softly, to willow
tara: i'm not a demon.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: you're not a demon.
tara: he hurt my nose.
willow: aw.
scene direction: spike still rubbing his forehead
spike: yeah, you're welcome.
scene direction: spike stalks off
scene direction: tara and willow smile hugely at each other.
scene direction: shot of buffy and dawn in identical poses side-by-side, with their arms crossed, their heads cocked at the same angle, and the same steely glare on both their faces. giles stands behind them.
giles: mr. maclay, i would say your business here is finished.
mr. maclay: tara.
scene direction: mr. maclay tara looks at him
mr. maclay: for eighteen years your family has taken care of you and supported you. if you wanna turn your back- tara:
scene direction: mr. maclay walking forward
mr. maclay: dad ... just go.
scene direction: mr. maclay scowls, turns and heads for the door. donny follows. mr. maclay pauses at the door.
scene direction: mr. maclay disgusted
mr. maclay: magic.
scene direction: beth gives tara a very dirty look.
beth: are you happy now?
scene direction: a slow smile spreads across tara's face as fast rock music begins.
scene change: cut to the bronze. a montage of scenes of the whole group wearing party clothes, talking and laughing in different groups. xander giving tara a drink. buffy talking with someone. willow laughing at xander's joke. dawn racing through the crowd and buffy stopping her. willow blowing bubbles while tara opens her presents, admiring the crystal ball from giles. dawn running up to tara, holding a broom with a bow tied around it. a bunch of them hanging out, talking, playing pool.
scene change: cut to buffy leaning against a pole, watching the action with a smile. behind her the door opens and riley enters, with a gift box under his arm. he goes up to buffy.
riley: sorry i'm late.
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: you came.
riley: of course i came.
scene direction: they kiss.
scene change: cut to tara talking to anya, who wears a party hat.
tara: no, see, 'cause your insect reflection represents your insignificance...
scene direction: tara anya nods
tara: in terms of the karmic cycle.
scene direction: anya nods to show that she understands, then ponders it for a moment.
anya: but it's still not funny.
scene change: cut to xander, buffy, dawn and giles talking together. riley comes over with three blue plastic cups, gives one to buffy and one to giles. we see that xander already has a cup.
scene direction: dawn with her back to the others, watching the crowd
dawn: this place is so cool.
scene direction: dawn looks at hand
dawn: 'cept i have to wear this stupid stamp on my hand.
xander: that's to keep you from boozing it up.
dawn: oh please. only losers drink alcohol.
scene direction: a beat as the others take this in. the cups they're all holding are prominently visible. dawn is cheerfully oblivious.
scene direction: cut back to tara and anya.
anya: so what's an eagle reflection?
tara: umm...
scene direction: willow approaches.
willow: my dance?
scene direction: she takes tara's hand and leads her onto the floor as a slow song starts. they begin to dance. willow has her hands on tara's waist; tara's hands on willow's shoulders.
willow: good birthday?
tara: best birthday.
willow: i still can't believe you didn't tell me about your family and all that.
tara: i was just afraid if you saw the kind of people i came from, you wouldn't wanna be anywhere near me.
willow: see ... that's where you're a dummy. i think about ... what you grew up with, and ... then i look at what you are ... it makes me proud. it makes me love you more.
tara: every time i-
scene direction: tara takes a deep breath
tara: even when i'm at my worst ... you always make me feel special.
scene direction: willow smiles.
tara: how do you do that?
willow: magic.
scene direction: they embrace, putting their heads on each other's shoulders and swaying to the music.
singer: i can't take my eyes off you... i can't take my eyes off you...
scene direction: (this line of song repeats several more times as they continue slowly moving to the music and the camera moves around them. we see them slowly rising upward.)
scene direction: long shot of willow and tara, surrounded by other couples who are also dancing. but willow and tara are floating several feet above the floor.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producer: joss whedon 