scene direction: fade in on buffy, riley, xander, and anya sitting in xander's basement. the guys are sitting on the sofa, with the girls sitting on the floor each in front of her respective boyfriend. they're watching tv, except buffy, who has a book in her lap and is studying it. xander's holding the tv remote. anya's right arm is in a sling.
xander: wish i had something food-like to offer you guys, but the hot plate's out of commission.
anya: we think the cat peed on it.
scene direction: on the tv, one asian guy screams, and a bunch of other asian guys perform kung-fu on each other.
xander: i do have spaghetti-o's. set 'em on top of the dryer and you're a fluff cycle away from lukewarm goodness.
scene direction: xander gestures at the dryer
riley: hmm. yeah, i had dryer food for lunch.
scene direction: upstairs we hear a door slam.
scene direction: xander looking up
xander: ah, i guess the folks are back.
scene direction: we can hear voices yelling at each other. xander, anya, and riley look uncomfortable. buffy is oblivious.
xander: no, no, i was wrong. just incompetent burglars.
scene direction: more yelling from upstairs. then there's a bang (another door slamming?). plaster dust from the ceiling drifts down onto anya.
xander: yeah, maybe it's definitely time to start looking for a new place. something a little nicer. buffy, you've been to hell. they have one-bedrooms, right?
scene direction: riley laughs, then notices buffy isn't paying attention.
riley: hey buffy, how's that book? full of zippy dates and zesty names?
scene direction: buffy not listening
buffy: i'm fine.
scene direction: riley leans forward, reaching his arms over buffy's shoulders and placing his palms on the book pages.
buffy: heyyy. i'm enjoying the studying.
riley: who are you lately? give it up and watch the movie.
buffy: i guess it has been a long day with the crusades. i can take a little break from the violence for some
scene direction: buffy looks up at tv
buffy: ooh, fighting.
scene direction: onscreen, the kung-fu guys argue. their mouths move, and we hear the english that has been badly dubbed in.
xander: incompetently-dubbed kung fu. our most valuable chinese import.
anya: much more durable than their hot plates.
scene direction: riley leans forward to rub buffy's shoulders.
riley: just relax.
buffy: mm ... mm. that feels good.
scene direction: xander looks at them, cracks his knuckles, and puts his hands on anya's shoulders.
anya: ow! what are you doing? i have a dislocated shoulder!
scene direction: anya xander stops rubbing. riley stops rubbing buffy's shoulders too.
anya: i'm trying to concentrate on the kicking movie.
buffy: hey! rubbing went away.
scene direction: riley starts rubbing again.
riley: oh ... sorry, i got caught up in the action.
scene direction: riley gesturing at tv
buffy: yeah, it's pretty good.
scene direction: on screen, the fighting continues.
buffy: oh, give me a break! this is all wrong. see, first you would get the big guy, with a flying kick. then you would take out all the little ones, bam, ba- see, now with the flying kick.
scene direction: buffy scornfully
buffy: from a dead stop! what's powering it, raw enthusiasm?
riley: hey buff, maybe you oughta leave the work behind sometimes. you're not always on slayer duty, you know?
buffy: it would drive you crazy if we were watching an army movie and they were all saluting backwards and ... invading all willy-nilly.
scene direction: more shouting and banging from upstairs. xander and anya shift uncomfortably. riley coughs.
buffy: and anyway, i mean, you know, you can't blame me for being critical. willow's the same way when we watch a, a movie about witches, right xander?
scene direction: xander distracted by the noise from upstairs
xander: what? oh yeah, she's all like, "what's that, a cauldron? who uses a cauldron any more?" cut to a dark lair filled with steam or smoke. cheesy dramatic music. a demon is tending to a huge cauldron full of bubbling yellow liquid. steam rises from it. the demon pulls the hood of his cloak back, so we can see he has brownish skin with cracks through which yellowish ligh
scene direction: xander ?
xander: shows. his eyes are sunken and red, and his voice is very deep.
toth: the last step in thy forging is my pain ... the price with which i purchase ... the death of the slayer.
scene direction: he has some kind of rod or stick in his hand. he plunges it into the cauldron, along with his hand. he screams in pain.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: fade in on a nice modern apartment building surrounded by bushes and grass. we see a "for rent" sign outside.
scene change: cut to interior hallway.
willow: if you get the apartment, this'll be your hallway.
scene direction: we see willow, anya, xander, buffy, and riley walking down the hall. xander wears a yellow t-shirt with a brightly flowered hawaiian shirt over it. anya still has her arm in the sling.
willow: we'll walk down this hall, and we'll say, "la la, i'm on my way to xander's." buffy: just warning you, xander, i probably won't be doing that.
riley: really? i will.
xander: hey, we're just lookin'. rent's way high, so don't get your hopes all carbonated.
anya: but you have references.
xander: no, i have albert, which is me doing an important voice.
scene direction: xander does important voice
xander: 'xander harris? an excellent tenant. and a very nice-looking fellow.' anya opens a door and they walk into the apartment. it's large and spacious.
willow: whoa! big!
buffy: it's nice. and not subterranean. it's very, uh, above-terranean.
scene direction: xander looks less than thrilled.
anya: i want it. pay anything.
scene direction: woman os
woman: xander harris?
scene direction: the real-estate manager woman enters, smiling at riley.
riley: uh, no, riley finn.
scene direction: riley shakes her hand
riley: this is xander.
scene direction: xander wipes his hand on his shirt before holding it out.
xander: hey.
scene direction: he and the manager shake hands.
manager: ah.
xander: i brought my friends.
manager: i see.
xander: they wouldn't always be around.
willow: but we're clean and-and quiet.
scene direction: xander looks nervous. the manager looks uncertain.
scene direction: anya standing in the living room, gesturing around
anya: we can have the scooby meetings in the living room, and-and giles can explain the boring things over there.
scene direction: willow going into kitchen
willow: oh, there's a microwave! it would be like having hot and cold running popcorn.
manager: phone and electricity are hooked up. there's a private balcony, ceiling fan, closet space...
scene direction: manager sees xander opening a door
manager: and that's the bedroom.
scene direction: xander opens the door and finds buffy and riley sitting on the bed, smooching.
xander: guys, you can't save it for the bedroom?
scene direction: buffy and riley look around pointedly.
xander: okay, good point.
scene direction: he walks away. in the background we see buffy and riley getting up.
manager: i brought an application for you to fill out.
scene direction: manager giving xander a piece of paper
xander: an application? i can't just ... tell you my references? because there's albert.
manager: we run your credit check based on the application.
xander: oh! credit check.
scene direction: xander nervously, to the others
xander: little check on the credit. see how credible my checks are.
scene direction: xander laughs nervously. the others laugh politely.
manager: and we'll be asking for first, last, security, and a small cleaning deposit. the total's at the bottom of the sheet there.
scene direction: xander looks at the sheet. riley, buffy, and willow lean in to look too. anya comes over and glances briefly at the sheet.
scene direction: anya to manager
anya: he'll take it.
scene direction: anya to xander
anya: xander, go get the furniture, i'll wait here.
scene direction: anya to manager
anya: he's been living in his drunken parents' basement where something urinated on the hot plate.
scene direction: xander laughs nervously
xander: anya, can we talk quietly over there?
scene direction: xander to manager
xander: excuse us.
scene direction: he pulls anya aside, leaving the other three with the manager. they smile nervously at her.
riley: uh, we, uh ... we like the ceiling fan.
willow: yes. it's very, you know, kind of old south.
buffy: but without the unpleasant slavery associations.
scene direction: anya os
anya: but why can't we have it?
scene direction: cut over to xander and anya across the room.
scene direction: xander quietly
xander: i told you, my construction job is ending, and i won't have any more money coming in. and by the way, you do have your own place.
anya: so when i wanna visit you, i have to be in that awful basement?
xander: not forever. just until things come together.
anya: which is when, xander? 'cause right now, things are looking pretty un-together, and you can't expect me just to wait around for-
scene direction: anya her voice rises and the others try not to notice
xander: quiet, please. anya, what is this? what's going on with you?
scene direction: anya loudly
anya: what's going on with me is my arm hurts ... and i'm tired ... and i don't really feel like taking a tour of beautiful things i can't have.
scene direction: she stalks out. manager looks a little suspicious. the others smile gamely.
scene direction: xander with a big fake smile
xander: i guess i'll just start on that application. i think you'll like it. i've been told i have lovely penmanship.
scene direction: he takes the application, puts it on a counter and begins filling it out. manager watches, looking skeptical.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the magic shop.
scene change: cut to inside. giles is surrounded by boxes, looking at one.
scene direction: giles to himself
giles: "miscellaneous curses."
scene direction: giles laughs, picks up something unidentifiable from the box
giles: brilliant. be lucky if i don't curse my hands off at the wrist.
scene direction: he picks up the box, turns, and is confronted by toth.
giles: oh!
scene direction: toth raising his stick
toth: the slayer is not here.
scene direction: giles grabs something out of the box and holds it up toward toth.
giles: rabbit's foot, no, wait...
scene direction: giles tosses it aside and looks in the box for something else. toth brushes the box out of giles' hands. giles gasps and holds up a wooden statue about a foot and a half high.
toth: that is a fertility god.
scene direction: toth giles looks at it in dismay
toth: feeble man, you are not going to distract me- giles hits him in the head with the statue. he reels backward. giles hits him with the statue a few more times, then toth shoves giles, and he falls into a pile of boxes.
scene direction: toth pointing the stick at giles
toth: you are not the slayer.
scene direction: toth giles rolls over and looks up at him
toth: you do not concern me.
scene direction: toth turns and walks out, his black cape flowing behind him. giles watches, stunned, then lets his head drop back onto the floor with a groan.
scene change: cut to a shot of giles standing, holding the statue, making hitting motions.
giles: like this ... and this ... and this...
scene direction: the camera follows him as he moves across the magic shop floor, and we see riley, buffy, willow, and xander. the girls sit on the floor with books in their laps. the guys are standing around watching giles demonstrate what happened.
riley: that thing's pretty heavy.
willow: that's oofdar. goddess of childbirth. she's got some nice heft to her.
buffy: how badly did you hurt him?
giles: well, hurt, uh ... maybe not ... hurt.
willow: well, i-i'm sure he was startled.
giles: uh, yes, yes, i'd imagine it gave him, uh, rather a turn.
scene direction: buffy grinning
buffy: he ran away, huh?
giles: um, sort of more ... uh ... turned and swept out majestically, i suppose. he said i didn't concern him.
buffy: so a mythic triumph over a completely indifferent foe?
scene direction: giles insulted
giles: well, i'm not dead or unconscious, so i say bravo for me.
scene direction: willow holding up a book
willow: some good demons in this one. see if your guy's in here.
scene direction: giles walks over to take the book.
xander: so you bought the magic shop and you were attacked before it opened. who's up for a swingin' chorus of the "we told you so" symphony?
scene direction: riley hefting the oofdar statue
riley: owning this place does seem kinda dangerous.
scene direction: riley takes a few experimental swings
scene direction: giles looking up from the book
giles: toth.
riley: what?
buffy: he called you a toth. it's a british expression. it means, like, moron.
giles: no, toth is the name of the demon.
scene direction: giles sees xander holding a crystal
giles: be careful with that.
scene direction: giles xander looks around at the others, puts the crystal down carefully
giles: ancient demon. very strong. last survivor of the tothric clan. it also says that for a demon he's unusually sophisticated.
buffy: sophisticated. so i should discuss men's fashions with him before i chop his head off?
scene direction: giles exasperated
giles: they're referring to the fact that he does not fight bare-handed. he uses tools, devices. oh, he's also supposed to be very focused. and since he mentioned the slayer, i think we know what the focus is.
riley: he mentioned buffy? where do we find him, and how hard can i kill him?
scene direction: giles consulting book
giles: well, there's no mention of the types of places he might frequent, but ...
scene direction: giles closes book and stands up
giles: i have an idea.
scene direction: giles walks around, talking thoughtfully
giles: he had a very specific olfactory presence.
xander: well, i guess we're off to the olfactory. i hate that place.
scene direction: xander everyone rolls their eyes at him
xander: i'm joking, i know what it means. he smelled.
scene direction: xander uncertainly
xander: right?
willow: some demon rituals involve anointing with oils. was it sort of ... sandalwood-y?
giles: um ... not even remotely. but he was very, um... distinctive.
scene change: cut to exterior location, night. giles, xander, buffy, riley, and willow walk along cautiously. buffy carries a large axe.
buffy: the city dump. where smells go to relax and be themselves.
riley: people say they're recycling.
scene direction: riley shakes head
riley: they're not recycling.
scene direction: riley xander pats him on the shoulder
willow: i found a spell so you can't smell anything, but it does it by taking your nose off, so ... no.
scene direction: they hear noises and see someone rooting around in the trash.
riley: what are *you* doing here, spike?
scene direction: riley we see that riley has a crossbow
scene direction: spike straightens up, holding a mannequin arm.
spike: oh, there's a nice lady vampire who set up a charming tea room over the next pile of crap. what do you think i'm doing? i'm scavenging, ain't i?
scene direction: spike holds up a small lamp in the other hand
willow: very pretty.
scene direction: spike nods and turns to put the arm and the lamp in a shopping cart nearby.
giles: spike, um ... we're looking for a demon, um... tall, robed, skin sort of hanging off. deep voice?
spike: you mean a great tall robe-y thing like that one?
scene direction: spike pointing behind them
scene direction: they all turn and see toth standing there. he points his stick at them. fire flashes out of it and they all duck just in time.
riley: take cover!
spike: big guy! kick her ass!
scene direction: toth fires again. buffy and xander duck aside, and the bolt shatters spike's lamp which he's still holding.
spike: oh, very nice! i was on your side!
scene direction: spike angrily tosses the pieces of lamp aside
scene direction: toth fires again.
xander: watch out!
scene direction: xander thrusts buffy behind him. the blast hits him full in the chest and he flies backward into a pile of trash. the others rush over.
riley: hey, you okay?
xander: i'm okay.
willow: buffy, he's gone.
xander: i'm fine.
riley: easy, easy.
scene direction: riley and giles help xander up. he groans.
riley: he disappeared.
scene direction: they look around. no sign of toth. they start to walk off.
riley: that had to hurt.
xander: yeah, yeah.
giles: take it slowly.
scene direction: they walk off. the camera pans slowly back across the piles of trash. among the bags, we see another xander, lying apparently unconscious. blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: fade in on the city dump, day. the camera pans across mounds of trash to where scruffyxander is lying, yawning and beginning to wake up. eyes closed, he makes a disgusted face.
scruffyxander: anya ... you trying to use the hot plate again?
scene direction: slowly he opens his eyes, looks around. we can hear flies buzzing.
scruffyxander: uh-oh.
scene direction: he gets up and walks off.
scene change: cut to scruffyxander walking around the corner of his parents' house, looking confused and disheveled. he goes down the outer stairs to his basement door, tries to open it but it's locked. he knocks.
scruffyxander: anya? an?
scene direction: he knocks some more, then kicks the door, hurting his foot, and hops around in pain. he limps up the stairs and goes to the nearest window. it's ground-level. he lies on the ground, wipes dirt off the window, and peers in.
scene direction: long shot of a person wearing khaki pants but no shirt, combing his hair in front of the mirror inside xander's room.
scene direction: scruffyxander peering in window
scruffyxander: oh my god!
scene direction: closer shot of the person inside as he turns away from the window. it looks just like xander.
scene direction: scruffyxander os
scruffyxander: what? no way! who is ... me?
scene direction: we see suavexander putting on a blue button-down shirt. his hair is neatly combed and appears to be wet.
scene direction: cut back to outside.
scruffyxander: what am i doing in there? buffy. need buffy.
scene direction: he gets up, trips over his own feet and falls over.
scene change: cut to scruffyxander standing at a pay phone with the receiver tucked under his ear as he digs in his pockets.
scene direction: scruffyxander into phone
scruffyxander: no, it ate my quarter. uh-huh. but see, i'm sort of having this aggressively bad day.
scene direction: scruffyxander pulls quarter out of pocket
scruffyxander: ooh! i found a quarter! i found a quarter! ... well, ma'am, for me it *is* worth getting excited about.
scene direction: he hangs up, puts the quarter in, and dials.
scruffyxander: come on, buffy.
scene direction: he turns and sees suavexander walking toward him, looking very tidy and confident. scruffyxander quickly turns away and hides his face with one hand, then watches as suavexander walks past him.
scene direction: buffy on phone
buffy: hello?
scene direction: scruffyxander dithers for a moment, then hangs up and goes after suavexander.
scene change: cut to buffy holding the phone to her ear.
buffy: they hung up.
scene direction: she hangs up and picks up an axe. we see that she's in her bedroom at joyce's place. riley sits on the bed. buffy moves toward the bed, where she puts the axe in a bag with some other weapons.
buffy: well, if this guy wants to fight with weapons, i've got it covered from a to z. from axe to ... zee other axe.
scene direction: buffy riley looks tense. she walks over to him.
buffy: relax. another day, another demon.
riley: right. it'll be good.
buffy: hey.
scene direction: she leans down to kiss him. the kiss goes on, and then we hear choking, gagging noises. shot of dawn in the doorway, pretending to gag. buffy and riley stop smooching, look annoyed.
dawn: my friend sharon's older brother knows a girl who died because she choked on her boyfriend's tongue.
scene direction: buffy annoyed
buffy: go away, dawn.
scene direction: buffy riley looks amused
dawn: i'm not in your room. i'm in the hallway. the hallway doesn't belong to you.
scene direction: we see joyce coming out of the room across the hall.
scene direction: buffy moving toward the door
buffy: get *out* of here.
dawn: mom, i can stand in the hallway, right?
buffy: she's watching us like a big freak!
scene direction: joyce sighs, puts hand to her forehead
joyce: this must be my "two teenage girls in the house" headache. i thought it felt familiar.
buffy: good work, dawn. you gave her a headache.
dawn: i did not!
scene direction: dawn to joyce
dawn: did i give you a headache, mom? i'm sure part of it is buffy's.
buffy: but part of it is dawn's.
joyce: it's so nice you've learned to share. you girls, sort this out yourselves. it's good for you.
scene direction: joyce exits. buffy looks annoyed.
scene direction: dawn smiling smugly
dawn: she didn't say i couldn't stand here.
scene direction: buffy smiling smugly
buffy: hmm.
scene direction: buffy shuts the door in dawn's face.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: ow!
scene change: cut to spike in his crypt, arranging a mannequin. as the camera moves out we can see that the mannequin is from the waist up only (no legs). spike arranges its clothing, then turns away and takes a long blonde wig from his shopping cart and carefully places it on the dummy's head. he smiles slightly.
spike: very posh.
scene direction: he turns away as if to get something else, but suddenly whirls and aims a kick at the mannequin. it falls over and its head comes off, bouncing on the floor. spike kicks it into the air and catches it. the wig is still on. spike holds the head up and gazes at it.
spike: oh, slayer.
scene direction: spike rubs his thumb along its cheek
spike: one of these days...
scene change: cut to exterior shot of a construction site, day. various men and machines are working. suavexander walks through the scenery, approaches a rack where a bunch of hard-hats are hanging. he picks up the one marked "harris" and puts it on. he walks off.
scene change: cut to suavexander wearing the hard hat, gloves, and safety goggles, using some kind of noisy power tool on a piece of wood. a guy walks up behind him. it's his boss.
boss: hey harris!
scene direction: boss no reaction. boss yells louder.
boss: harris!
scene direction: suavexander turns off tool
suavexander: harris, right. yeah.
boss: in my trailer, okay? i'm talking to all the guys today. the job's winding down.
suavexander: right, i'll ... be right there.
scene direction: boss walks off as suavexander puts down the tool.
scene direction: shot of scruffyxander hiding behind a porta-potty, watching. he's still wearing the yellow t-shirt and flowered shirt over it, now looking extremely dirty. his hair is disheveled.
scene direction: shot of suavexander walking toward boss's trailer.
scene direction: scruffyxander muttering
scruffyxander: welcome to payback, mister evil-plan-face-stealer. you take my life, you get my being fired absolutely free.
scene direction: we see suavexander walking across the site, smoothly ducking underneath a big pipe being carried by two other guys.
scene direction: the door of the porta-potty opens and smacks scruffyxander in the face. a hard-hatted guy, exiting the porta-potty, looks at scruffyxander as he puts a hand to his face.
guy: harris. where's your hard hat?
scene direction: scruffyxander makes a face and walks off.
scene change: cut to interior of boss's trailer.
boss: sit down.
scene direction: suavexander does so, putting his hard hat on the desk.
scene direction: shot of scruffyxander outside, walking up to the trailer, trying to look through the window but it's too high.
scene direction: cut back inside.
boss: how long you work here, harris?
scene direction: we see that suavexander has something shiny in his hand, about the size and shape of a us quarter. he's turning it around in his fingers.
suavexander: huh? i'm not sure.
boss: about three months?
suavexander: i guess, yeah.
scene direction: cut back outside. scruffyxander is trying to make a table to stand on, by pulling together some random pieces of wood that were lying around. he climbs up on it and peers in the window. we see the boss and suavexander from scruffyxander's perspective.
scene direction: boss os
boss: and you haven't done much construction work before this, is that right?
scruffyxander: i knew they were gonna notice that.
boss: i have to tell you, that's surprising ... 'cause your work here has been first-rate. yeah, we have another job lined up in carlton when you're finished here.
scene direction: cut back inside. we see that the shiny thing in suavexander's hand is reflecting the light onto the boss's face and chest.
boss: you ever think about staying on full-time?
scene direction: cut back outside.
scruffyxander: what? why isn't he firing me? ... him?
scene direction: cut back inside.
boss: i was thinking that i'd have you head up our interior carpentry crew ...
scene direction: boss closeup of the shiny thing in suavexander's hand, reflecting the light.
boss: ...see how it goes. it's more responsibility, but the pay is better.
scene direction: suavexander enthusiastically
suavexander: that would be *great*.
scene change: cut to outside.
scruffyxander: promotion? but i ... i mean, he didn't ... doesn't he see the shiny thing?
scene direction: scruffyxander gestures angrily at the window. this causes him to lose his balance and fall off his perch.
scene direction: cut back inside. the boss shakes suavexander's hand.
boss: congratulations, harris. you and your girl should go out and celebrate.
suavexander: i already have an idea how.
scene change: cut to exterior of the apartment building, night. the for rent sign is gone.
scene change: cut to interior of the apartment. suavexander is filling out forms while the manager lady watches. he's still wearing the khaki pants and blue shirt, but now with a brown suit jacket over it.
manager: i was going to call you, mr. harris, let you know your credit checked out fine, but ... i really didn't think you'd be back.
scene change: cut to the hallway. scruffyxander is listening in, crouching on the floor.
scruffyxander: "mister harris." yeah, right.
manager: i'm sure you'll like the building...
scene direction: cut back to inside the apartment.
scene direction: manager smiling
manager: ...i think someone said you're currently in your parents' basement?
suavexander: right. there comes a point where you either have to move on, or just buy yourself a klingon costume and ... go with it.
scene direction: manager laughs a little more than necessary.
manager: well ...
scene direction: manager picking up documents
manager: i hope you'll be happy here, mr. harris. we're certainly happy to have you.
suavexander: thank you.
scene direction: suavexander we see that he's doing the trick with the shiny thing again.
manager: and if you ... need anything ... day, or night ... please. call me.
scene direction: suavexander grins.
manager: i, um ... i'm leaving my home number here...
scene change: cut to hallway.
scruffyxander: she's coming on to him ... me!
scene direction: cut back to inside apartment.
manager: call me.
scene direction: manager hands suavexander her card
manager: even for, you know ... non-business stuff. maybe we could, uh, do something?
scene change: cut to hallway.
scruffyxander: please, lady, that is so not me. he's too clean for one thing. and his socks are all matchy.
scene direction: he leaps aside as the door opens. he rushes to hide around the corner.
scene direction: manager in doorway
manager: remember ... any time.
scene direction: she closes the door and walks off.
scene direction: cut back to inside apartment. suavexander is dialing the phone.
suavexander: anya, you there? ... look, i know you're still mad, but ... i figure you're probably sitting there pretending you're not home but listening anyway.
scene change: cut to anya's apartment. she's standing there in a bathrobe, still with arm in sling, listening to suavexander on the answering machine.
anya: am not.
scene direction: cut back to xander's apartment.
suavexander: look, i have something to show you. meet me at the apartment.
scene direction: cut back to anya's.
scene direction: suavexander on machine
suavexander: you know the one. nine o'clock.
scene direction: suavexander beep
scene direction: anya looks conflicted.
scene direction: cut back to hallway outside xander's apartment. the door opens and suavexander comes out. he closes the door, locks it with the key. scruffyxander comes out from around the corner and leaps on suavexander's back, yelling.
scruffyxander: yeah!
scene direction: suavexander throws him off and scruffyxander falls down. he gets up and they stare at each other. suavexander punches scruffyxander in the face. he goes down again, clutching his nose.
scruffyxander: i won't let you do this!
scene direction: neighbor woman os
neighbor woman: what's going on down there?
scruffyxander: you can't do this to me!
scene direction: suavexander turns and runs off. scruffyxander groans and clutches his face.
scruffyxander: oh, man, i need buffy.
scene change: cut to shot of sunnydale, night, with rain pouring down. cut to exterior of giles' apartment (courtyard). scruffyxander runs across the courtyard, soaking wet.
scene direction: suavexander os
suavexander: no, no. he looked *exactly* like me.
scene direction: scruffyxander goes to the window and sees suavexander talking to riley, buffy, and giles.
suavexander: it stole my face. we have to find it, and we have to kill it.
scene direction: scruffyxander turns away.
scruffyxander: she sees it's not me. please, buffy ... resist his spell. do this for me.
scene direction: he turns to look in the window again.
scene direction: buffy to suavexander
buffy: don't worry, xander. whatever stole your face, it has to deal with the slayer now.
scene direction: scruffyxander stares through the window in alarm. blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene change: exterior shot of a uc sunnydale dorm building, still night, still raining. cut to inside willow's bedroom. she enters, carrying some books. a moment later the door bursts open and scruffyxander comes in, thoroughly drenched.
scruffyxander: don't be scared, will. just listen. it's me, xander.
scene direction: willow puts her books on the bed, looking confused.
scruffyxander: and i can prove it.
willow: um ... okay.
scene direction: willow sits on the bed
scruffyxander: let's see.
scene direction: scruffyxander paces
scruffyxander: stuff only you and me know. okay! on my seventh birthday ... i wanted a toy fire truck, and i didn't get it, and you were real nice about it, and then the house next door burnt down, and then real fire trucks came, and for years i thought you set the fire for me. and if you did, you can tell me.
scene direction: scruffyxander grins nervously. willow doesn't respond. he paces more.
scruffyxander: for a while last year, i thought i was lactose-intolerant, but it was just some bad brie. oh!
scene direction: scruffyxander points at willow
scruffyxander: every christmas, we watch charlie brown together, and i do the snoopy dance.
scene direction: he begins to do the snoopy dance, wearing a big grin. willow watches for a moment and then gets up.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: xander ... stop dancing.
scruffyxander: aha! you called me xander!
willow: xander, shut up! why wouldn't i think you were xander?
scruffyxander: oh. huh.
willow: what's goin' on?
scene direction: scruffyxander sighs
scruffyxander: okay. i woke up in the dump this morning.
willow: xander, the basement isn't a dump. it, it's more like a really nice hovel.
scruffyxander: no. the dump. the city dump. i got hit last night, fall down boom, woke up this morning.
willow: nuh uh! we walked you home last night, remember?
scene direction: willow sits down on bed again
scruffyxander: you walked? will. did i do anything weird? did i wave any shiny things around?
willow: shiny things, what are you talking about?
scruffyxander: last night, that wasn't me. there's a double out there. some ... thing has stolen my face, and it's going around pretending to be me, and it's hypnotizing people. it even got to buffy and giles and riley. it's over there right now and they have no idea.
scene change: cut to giles' apartment.
giles: what's intriguing me is that there are any number of demons with the ability to mimic a simple form, but, uh ... this sounds like more than that.
suavexander: hold up. do we really have to figure out what it is? let's just go kill it.
riley: yeah. when the imposter's killed, the body'll probably turn back into whatever it really is, and then we'll know.
buffy: toth!
scene direction: they all look at her.
buffy: the demon with the creepy stick thing.
scene direction: suavexander thoughtfully
suavexander: toth.
buffy: it's gotta be! he hit xander with that blast, and somehow it allowed him to take xander's form. couldn't that be what the creepy stick thing did?
giles: yes ... i suppose, yes, yes, it makes sense. a shape-shifting device.
scene direction: giles moves off-screen toward his bookshelves
suavexander: it does make sense. it must be toth.
scene direction: cut back to willow's room. willow and scruffyxander are sitting side-by-side on the bed. he's wringing out his wet clothing.
scene direction: scruffyxander angrily
scruffyxander: it's a robot. it's an evil robot constructed from evil parts that look like me designed to do evil.
willow: uh huh. or it's toth.
scene direction: scruffyxander still angrily
scruffyxander: or, it's toth.
scene direction: cut back to giles'.
buffy: i was gonna look for toth anyway. guess now i start ... looking for you.
suavexander: should i go with you? i ... told anya to meet me at my new place. i'd feel a whole lot better knowing she's safe from this creep.
scene direction: buffy nods.
buffy: go be with her. i, i mean, if you were out there looking for the double too ...
scene direction: buffy looks at riley, then back at suavexander
buffy: let's just say that i wouldn't wanna run into you and kill the wrong one.
suavexander: good thinking. when you kill this thing, you better make sure you got the one's who's actually- cut back to willow's.
scruffyxander: a demon. a demon has taken my life from me, and he's living it better than i do.
scene direction: he's now standing and has his hawaiian shirt in his hands. he gives it a shake to remove the water. willow is still sitting on the bed, and winces as the water sprays her.
willow: well, we're working on it. there has to be a way to get to buffy to ... un-hypnotize her. i'll find a spell to snap her out of it.
scene direction: willow stands up and goes to her bookcase
scene direction: scruffyxander sourly
scruffyxander: right. whatever.
scene direction: willow turns back to him
willow: xander, you sound a little ... you have to help me figure this out, you know.
scruffyxander: but i never help. i get in trouble and buffy saves me.
willow: that's not true! sometimes we all helped save you.
scene direction: willow realizes that was unhelpful
willow: and sometimes you're not in trouble.
scene direction: they both sit on the bed again.
scruffyxander: i'm just ... another great humiliation.
scene direction: scruffyxander willow looks sympathetic
scruffyxander: but this time it's even worse. this demon, he's like taking my life, and everyone's treating him ... everyone's treating him like a grown-up! will, i'm starting to feel like...
willow: like what?
scruffyxander: like ... he's doing everything better. he's smarter, and ...
scene direction: scruffyxander shakes head
scruffyxander: i don't know, maybe i should just let him have it. take my life, please.
willow: xander, no!
scene direction: willow puts hand on his shoulder
willow: you're just tired, and ... and all soggy. that's why it seems so hard, but you can't let him just take your whole existence.
scruffyxander: why not? it's not like i was doing anything so great with it. when i get to the pearly gates i'm sure the guy is not gonna go, "hey, what a kick-ass comic book collection, come on in!"
scene direction: scruffyxander willow still looking sympathetic
scruffyxander: no, what have i got that's even worth-
scene direction: scruffyxander eyes widen
scruffyxander: anya!
willow: you think he's after her?
scruffyxander: she won't know. he can just ... no. no way!
scene direction: scruffyxander jumps up
scruffyxander: no way. he can take anything, but he can't have her. i need her.
scene direction: willow half disgusted, half smiling
willow: really?
scene direction: scruffyxander desperately
scruffyxander: he could be with her right now! figure out a spell, something ... reveal-y. i gotta find her.
scene direction: scruffyxander turns to leave
willow: xander...
scene direction: willow he turns back
willow: you already knew he was taking over your life, and ... you didn't think about anya till just now?
scruffyxander: hey, wait till you have an evil twin. see how you handle it.
scene direction: scruffyxander exits
scene direction: willow pouts
willow: i handled it fine.
scene change: cut to anya's apartment. scruffyxander bursts in.
scruffyxander: anya? an?
scene direction: he looks around. no one there. he notices the answering machine blinking and pushes the button.
scene direction: suavexander on machine
suavexander: meet me at the apartment. you know the one. 9:00.
scene direction: scruffyxander looks around, runs to a bureau, starts rummaging through the drawers.
scruffyxander: it's gotta be here. where is it?
scene change: cut to xander's apartment. suavexander is getting together a bottle of wine and two glasses. anya stands in the living room, on a blanket that's spread on the floor. a picnic basket is at her feet.
anya: you're lying. it's a trick.
suavexander: no. trust me.
scene direction: he walks over with the wine and puts it on the floor next to the basket.
anya: you really got this apartment?
suavexander: i really did. and do you know why?
scene direction: anya looks around.
anya: the ceiling fans? very attractive.
suavexander: no. it's because i knew you wanted it. it's all for you.
scene direction: she moves closer to him and they kiss.
suavexander: anya, you didn't see me today, did you? i mean, we didn't talk?
anya: what do you mean? i just got your phone message, that's all.
suavexander: good.
scene direction: they kiss some more, kneel and then sit on the blanket.
anya: so... what happens next?
suavexander: well, at some point we take off our clothes.
anya: i mean what happens next in our lives? when do we get a car?
scene direction: suavexander confused
suavexander: a car?
anya: and a boat. no, wait, i - i don't mean a boat. i mean a puppy. or a child. i have a list somewhere.
suavexander: what are you talking about?
anya: just ... we have to get going. i don't have time just to let these things happen.
suavexander: there's no hurry.
anya: yes there is. there's a hurry, xander. i'm dying.
scene direction: suavexander looks shocked.
anya: i may have as few as fifty years left.
suavexander: fifty years? what is thi- oh, wait a minute. this is about this.
scene direction: suavexander touching her arm sling
anya: what about the sling?
suavexander: you haven't been hurt like this since you became human.
scene direction: suavexander she nods reluctantly
suavexander: maybe it's finally hitting you what being human means.
scene direction: anya pouting
anya: no, that's not it.
suavexander: yes, i think it is. you were gonna live for thousands of years.
scene direction: suavexander anya nods
suavexander: and now you're gonna age and die. that must be terrifying.
anya: you don't understand what it's like.
suavexander: being suddenly human? i think i can get what that would be like. and we can get through it together.
anya: you can't make it any different. i'm going to get old. and ... you can't promise you'll be with me when i'm ... wrinkly and my teeth are artificial and stuck into my wrinkly mouth with an adhesive.
suavexander: no, i can't promise that. but it doesn't sound terrible. and that's saying something.
scene direction: suavexander anya looks somewhat comforted
suavexander: i promise you, anya. very soon you won't be thinking about getting older.
scene direction: they smooch.
scene direction: suddenly the door bursts open and scruffyxander rushes in. suavexander and anya look up.
scruffyxander: get away from her!
anya: xander!
scene direction: anya and suavexander stand up.
scene direction: anya to suavexander
anya: xander!
scene direction: suavexander to scruffyxander
suavexander: get out. you don't belong here.
scruffyxander: anya. it's me.
scene direction: anya looks in confusion from one to the other. she starts to walk toward scruffyxander but suavexander stops her.
suavexander: it's a demon. he stole my face, he's trying to trick you.
scene direction: anya looks from one to the other, very confused.
suavexander: anya, you know i'm me, right?
scruffyxander: no!
scene direction: anya looks at scruffyxander again and moves closed to suavexander.
anya: what is it? make it go away.
scene change: cut to giles'. riley is looking at a map. we see giles in the background looking at books.
riley: so you're thinking we split up?
buffy: yeah, you check the places where he might try and go and blend in as xander. i'll check the places where toth might hang out.
scene direction: the door bursts open and willow enters.
giles: i swear, this time i *know* i had that locked.
willow: buffy, toth looks like xander.
riley: we already know. we're on our way.
buffy: wait a second, how did you know about this?
willow: he came to me. i-i mean xander did. and he's in terrible shape, we need to help him.
scene direction: shot of giles reading a book, not listening to them.
riley: he came to us too.
willow: no. we each had a xander. i mean ... you didn't have a xander, you had a, a demon in a xander suit.
buffy: what makes you so sure that yours is the right one?
willow: he knew stuff! he, he did the snoopy dance.
scene direction: willow another shot of giles reading
willow: buffy, it was xander, and he needs us.
giles: oh, dear lord.
riley: buffy, our xander, did he seem a little- buffy: he seemed kind of forceful and confident.
willow: that's not xander.
giles: i said, "oh, dear lord." buffy: you always say that.
giles: well, it's always important!
scene direction: giles coming forward to join them, carrying book
giles: neither xander is a demon.
willow: um ... is one of them a robot?
giles: what? no. um, uh, the rod device, it's called a ferula-gemina. it splits one person in half, distilling personality traits into two separate bodies. as near as i can tell, toth was attempting to split the slayer into two different entities.
scene direction: giles hands the book to willow
buffy: two buffys?
giles: yes. one with all the qualities inherent in buffy summers, and the other one with everything that belongs to the slayer alone ... the, uh, the-the strength, the, uh, speed, the heritage. and when it hit xander, i think it separated him into his strongest points and his
scene direction: giles grimaces
giles: weakest.
riley: but which one's the real one?
giles: they're both real. they're both xander. neither one of them is evil. there's nothing in either of them that our xander doesn't already possess.
riley: i still don't get the original plan. i mean, why do it? the slayer half would be like slayer concentrate, pretty un-killable.
giles: but the two halves can't exist without each other. kill the weaker buffy half, and the slayer half dies.
buffy: so the same goes for the xanders. we lose one, we lose them both.
scene direction: cut back to xander's apartment.
scruffyxander: he's the demon!
scene direction: scruffyxander anya looks uncertainly at suavexander
scruffyxander: or possibly a robot. look at me. look in my eyes. can't you see it's me?
scene direction: anya looks from one to the other, still completely confused.
anya: i, i don't know!
scene direction: scruffyxander desperately
scruffyxander: please! look at him! listen to him! he's all smooth! you have to know it's me!
suavexander: don't worry, anya. i'll get rid of this thing. i'm thinkin' this is gonna last about fifteen seconds.
scene direction: suavexander walks slowly toward scruffyxander
scene direction: scruffyxander reaches inside his clothing and pulls out a gun. he points it at suavexander.
scruffyxander: i'm thinkin' less.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: fade back in on the standoff. scruffyxander points the gun at suavexander, with anya behind. suddenly anya rushes forward.
anya: no! don't shoot him!
scene direction: she pushes the gun so it points at the ceiling. suavexander comes forward and grabs scruffyxander's hands and they all three grapple for the gun.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of a car zooming down the streets. cut to interior of car with riley driving and buffy in the passenger seat.
buffy: can't this thing go any faster? ultimate driving machine, my ass.
riley: we're pushing 70.
scene direction: pause. buffy looks meditative.
buffy: riley, do you wish- riley: no.
buffy: no? you don't even know what i was gonna say.
riley: yes, i do. you wanted to know if i wished you got hit by the ferula-gemina, got split in two.
buffy: well, you have been kind of rankly about the whole slayer gig. instead of having slayer buffy, you could have buffy buffy.
riley: hey. i *have* buffy buffy. being the slayer's part of who you are. you keep thinking i don't get that, but...
buffy: it's just ... i know how ... un-fun it can be. the bad hours, frequent bruising, cranky monsters...
riley: buffy... if you led a perfectly normal life, you wouldn't be half as crazy as you are. i gotta have that. i gotta have it all. i'm talkin' toes, elbows, the whole bad-ice-skating-movie obsession, everything. there's no part of you i'm not in love with.
scene direction: buffy looks up at him. he glances at her. she smiles a little, then looks out her window.
buffy: we better get there soon. if xander kills himself, he's dead.
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: you know what i mean.
scene direction: riley nods.
scene direction: shot of the car zooming along.
scene direction: cut back to the apartment. the xanders and anya are still wrestling over the gun.
scruffyxander: let go! i have to kill the demon-bot!
scene direction: the gun falls to the floor. suavexander grabs it.
suavexander: anya ... get out of the way.
scene direction: anya is standing in front of scruffyxander. buffy and riley rush in.
buffy: xander!
scene direction: riley closes the door.
scene direction: suavexander smiling
suavexander: all right, buffy. i have him.
scruffyxander: no! buffy! i'm me! help me!
anya: my gun! he's got my gun!
scene direction: anya pointing to the gun in suavexander's hand
riley: you own a gun?
buffy: xander ... gun-holding xander.
scene direction: buffy walks quickly over to suavexander
buffy: give me the gun.
scene direction: both xanders stare. finally suavexander holds the gun up and gives it a quick twist with one hand so that the bullets fall out onto the floor. he flips it shut and hands it to buffy, who looks impressed.
anya: buffy, which one's real?
scene direction: buffy hands the gun to riley.
scruffyxander: i am.
suavexander: no, i am.
scene direction: they try to attack each other but buffy steps between them. she flings scruffyxander across the room; he lands against the kitchen counter.
suavexander: thank you.
scene direction: buffy grabs him and shoves him over next to scruffyxander.
suavexander: ow!
scene direction: anya, riley, and buffy come up to examine the two xanders side-by-side.
riley: wild.
buffy: yeah. okay, xander ... xa ...
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: you've been split in two. but you're both xander. and you *can't* kill each other. um, well, you could, but it would be really bad.
scene direction: the xanders look at each other.
suavexander: no way.
scruffyxander: he can't be me. he's all ... fancy.
riley: we can prove that you're both xander.
buffy: yeah!
scene direction: buffy to riley
buffy: how?
riley: um...
buffy: um...
riley: well, there has to be a way.
buffy: ooh! what number am i thinking of?
riley: i don't think that's gonna do it.
scene direction: xanders in unison
xanders: eleven and a half.
buffy: wrong. oh! but see?
scene direction: the xanders frown.
scruffyxander: no. we're not the same. we're all different.
riley: different properties went into each of you, but you're both xander.
anya: different properties?
scruffyxander: what different properties?
buffy: uh, uh, you know, uh, sense of direction. good night vision, stuff like that.
scruffyxander: oh, but he has a thingy! in his pocket!
scene direction: scruffyxander pointing to suavexander's pocket
scruffyxander: a shiny disk that stuns and disorients!
scene direction: suavexander reaching in pocket, taking out the thing
suavexander: what disk?
scruffyxander: cover your eyes!
scene direction: scruffyxander covering eyes with hands
suavexander: this?
scruffyxander: it'll melt your brain!
scene direction: buffy takes the thing from suavexander. anya and riley lean in to see.
scene direction: buffy to scruffyxander
buffy: look.
scene direction: suavexander tolerantly
suavexander: it's a nickel someone flattened on the railroad track. i found it on the construction site and i thought it was cool. it's not magic.
scene direction: scruffyxander uncovers his eyes to take the thing from buffy.
scruffyxander: no, i ... huh. it *is* kinda cool.
scene direction: scruffyxander suavexander nods tolerantly
scruffyxander: ashington's still there, but he's all smushy.
scene direction: scruffyxander looks more closely
scruffyxander: and he may be jefferson.
anya: okay, isn't anyone gonna tell me why there are two xanders?
buffy: i will on the way to giles'. let's go.
scene direction: they all turn to leave just as the door is smashed in. scruffyxander and anya hide behind suavexander, grabbing his shoulders. toth strides in.
buffy: oh great. rod boy.
toth: i will not miss again, slayer.
scene direction: scruffyxander standing behind suavexander, clutching him around the shoulders
scruffyxander: the gun! pick up the little gun pieces!
scene direction: toth raises his rod. buffy and riley dive away in opposite directions. toth fires at buffy and misses, tearing a big hole in the floor.
suavexander: hey, i just made a small cleaning deposit!
scene direction: riley jumps on toth from behind, making him drop the rod. he throws riley off. riley punches him a few times, then toth head-butts him and flings him aside. buffy comes up and kicks toth a few times, punches him a few times, then he picks her up and body-slams her. she kicks up as he approaches, catching him on the chin. she gets up, lands a few more kicks and punches, and toth goes down.
buffy: sword!
scene direction: riley grabs the sword from the bag of weapons and throws it to her. she catches it and stabs toth. he screams and dies.
scene direction: buffy stands up, panting. anya and scruffyxander let go of suavexander. they all cluster around the corpse.
suavexander: oh, yeah. that cleaning deposit's gone.
scene direction: scruffyxander gasps
scruffyxander: i was thinking the same thing! hey, do you suppose we're both xander?
scene direction: suavexander gives him a big grin. anya stares at them.
scene change: cut to a shot of the two xanders side-by-side. now they're dressed the same, both in yellow t-shirts and identical hawaiian shirts, but scruffyxander's shirt is all dirty whereas suavexander's is clean, and scruffyxander's hair is much messier.
scruffyxander: look and admire, ladies.
scene direction: we see that they're in the magic shop. willow, buffy and anya are in a row staring at the xanders, fascinated. in the background we see riley watching, and giles on the floor making markings with chalk.
scene direction: buffy looking closely
buffy: look, there's a scar there,
scene direction: buffy pointing at scruffyxander's forehead
buffy: and there's the same one right there.
scene direction: buffy pointing at suavexander's forehead
willow: it's all double.
scene direction: willow pointing
willow: this zit, and this ... kinda funny dippy thing. a-and this weird little hair that grows in the wrong way
scene direction: willow pointing to scruffyxander's nose
scruffyxander: okay! back off, ladies.
riley: psychologically, this is fascinating. doesn't it make everyone wanna lock them in separate rooms and do experiments on them?
scene direction: everyone gives him an odd look.
riley: just me, then.
anya: so ... you xanders really do have all the same memories, all the same ...
scene direction: anya looking downward
anya: physical attributes?
scene direction: anya laughs suggestively
suavexander: we're completely identical.
scruffyxander: yeah, we checked out some stuff in the car on the way over.
scene direction: scruffyxander anya frowns in puzzlement
scruffyxander: fingerprints!
scene direction: anya turning to the others
anya: well, maybe we shouldn't do this reintegration thing right away. see, i can take the boys home, and ... we can all have sex together, and ... you know, just slap 'em back together in the morning.
scene direction: giles tries not to look appalled. buffy and riley grin.
suavexander: she's joking.
scruffyxander: no she's not! she entirely wants to have sex with us together. which is ... *wrong*, and, and it would be very confusing.
scene direction: giles getting up from the floor
giles: uh, uh, we just need to light the candles. also, we should continue to pretend we heard none of the disturbing sex talk.
willow: check. candles and pretense.
scene direction: everyone moves around getting stuff ready, except the xanders.
anya: it's not like it'd be cheating. they're both xander.
scruffyxander: now, hold on a sec. if you weren't putting a whammy on people with the shiny thing, how'd you do it? how'd you get the promotion?
suavexander: well, i'm good at that stuff.
scruffyxander: i am?
suavexander: yeah.
scruffyxander: and hey, how 'bout that lady, huh? the apartment manager.
suavexander: how weird was it when she called me "mister"?
scene direction: the xanders grin goofily at each other.
willow: we're ready. we should do it now.
scene direction: willow the xanders turn their grins toward her
anya: what'll we do if this doesn't work?
scene direction: xanders unison
xanders: kill us both, spock!
scene direction: xanders they look at each other and laugh delightedly.
buffy: they're ... kinda the same now.
giles: yes, he's clearly a bad influence on himself.
scruffyxander: hey, summon the goddess. chant the chant. let's do it.
willow: actually, it's not that hard. your natural state is to be together. toth's spell is doing all the work of keeping you apart. i just have to break it. so you two ...
scene direction: willow takes them both and positions them inside the chalk markings
willow: stand right here. side by side. we don't want you to end up with two fronts, now do we?
scruffyxander: are you sure you know how to do this?
scene direction: willow exhales
willow: here we go. brace yourselves.
scene direction: the two xanders close their eyes and prepare.
willow: let the spell be ended.
scene direction: closeup of a single xander, still with eyes closed.
xander: you gotta be kidding. "let the spell be ended," that's not gonna work.
scene direction: he opens his eyes and sees there's only one of him.
xander: oh!
scene direction: willow smiles proudly.
anya: i liked it the other way. put him back.
scene direction: shot of buffy raising her eyebrows.
scene change: cut to interior of xander's basement. xander and riley are carrying boxes out. anya is sitting on a stool reading a magazine. riley and xander put the boxes by the door, and xander pauses to look around.
riley: getting nostalgic?
xander: i don't know. at first it's just a place, then you start to make memories, and ... then you're like,
scene direction: xander pointing
xander: that's where spike slept, and
scene direction: xander pointing
xander: there, that's where anya and i drowned the separvo demon. oh!
scene direction: xander points
xander: and, and right there, that's where i got my heart all ripped out.
scene direction: xander shakes head
xander: i really hate this place.
scene direction: he and riley turn to pick up the boxes as buffy walks by. she goes to pick up another box, passing anya.
buffy: anya. i see you've joined the non-sling-wearing crowd.
scene direction: anya smiling
anya: yes, i'm feeling better. and i anticipate many years before my death. excepting disease or airbag failure.
buffy: that sounds nice.
scene direction: buffy walks off carrying box
scene direction: xander walks up to anya, carrying another box.
anya: ooh!
scene direction: anya tosses magazine aside
anya: presents?
xander: not unless you want my collection of babylon 5 commemorative plates. which you cannot have. i just thought you could help carry a little.
anya: me?
scene direction: anya pouts
anya: buffy has super strength. why don't we just load her up like one of those little horses?
xander: anya. please.
scene direction: anya getting off stool
anya: fine. i'm just your slave.
scene direction: anya takes box and goes out
scene direction: xander watches her go. riley watches too, while packing a box.
xander: how is it that she can always make me feel suavexander's left the building?
riley: you two have your friction, but ... she digs the whole package. it's obvious.
xander: still, i do envy you sometimes.
scene direction: xander riley looks up at him
xander: i mean for the sanity. not that i'm still into buffy.
scene direction: xander quickly
xander: not that i ever was.
scene direction: riley grinning
riley: hey, i'm well aware of how lucky i am. like, lottery lucky. buffy's like nobody else in the world. when i'm with her it's like ... it's like i'm split in two. half of me is just ... on fire, going crazy if i'm not touching her. the other half ... is so still and peaceful ... just perfectly content. just knows: this is the one.
scene direction: riley smiles a little, continues packing for a moment, then looks up at xander again.
riley: but she doesn't love me.
scene direction: xander stares at him, not knowing what to say. buffy re-enters.
buffy: got something else for me to carry?
riley: uh, you can help me pack this.
buffy: sure.
scene direction: buffy goes over to riley and kisses him
buffy: sure.
scene direction: they both turn to the packing as xander watches. blackout 