giles voiceover: there is nothing but you.
scene direction: head-shot of buffy with her eyes closed. quiet, meditative music begins.
giles voiceover: you are the center. and within you, there is the core of your being ... of what you are.
scene direction: shot of giles walking in a circle around buffy.
giles: find it ... breathe into it.
scene direction: we see buffy wearing a tank-top and pants, leaning over a short pedestal with both her hands on it. giles walks in front of her.
giles voiceover: focus inward. let the world fall away ... fall away ... fall away...
scene direction: the camera zooms in on buffy's face as giles repeats "fall away." she opens her eyes. buffy leans forward and goes into a handstand, balancing on her hands on the pedestal. the pedestal is about two feet high and four inches square. we see exercise mats underneath it and a vault in the background. giles is still walking circles around buffy, staring at her.
scene direction: shot of a large flat crystal with three smaller crystals standing on end atop it.
scene direction: shot of giles watching buffy.
scene direction: closeup of buffy's face, eyes closed again. she begins to remove one hand from the pedestal.
scene direction: slow-motion shot of buffy bringing one arm out parallel to the floor, so she is balancing on the other hand. giles still walking around her, watching. the music continues. buffy's face looks very peaceful.
scene direction: shot of the crystals. a hand appears and tries to balance a fourth crystal on top of the three standing ones, but it's clumsy and all the crystals fall over with a clunk.
scene direction: buffy's eyes pop open, she loses her concentration and crashes to the floor with a cry. giles starts toward her in alarm, sees she's all right. he then looks in a different direction, pulling off his glasses in an angry motion.
scene direction: shot of the ceiling from buffy's point of view. dawn's face emerges into the shot.
dawn: can we go now?
scene direction: shot of buffy looking annoyed.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: fade in on a hanging mobile of fish. the camera pans across a bedroom.
dawn voiceover: nobody knows who i am. not the real me. it's like, nobody cares enough to find out. i mean, does anyone ever ask *me* what i want to do with my life? or what my opinion is on stuff? or what restaurant to order in from?
scene direction: we see dawn sitting on a bed, wearing pajamas, writing in a diary. there's a huge pile of stuffed animals on the bed with her.
dawn voiceover: no. underline. exclamation point.
scene direction: we see her underlining the word and drawing the exclamation point. she ponders for a moment and then violently draws a few more, stabbing at the paper with her pen.
dawn voiceover: exclamation point, exclamation point.
scene direction: dawn voiceover pause
dawn voiceover: no one understands. no one has an older sister who's a slayer.
scene direction: shot of buffy opening the refrigerator and taking out a carton of milk.
dawn voiceover: people wouldn't be so crazy about her if they had to live in the same house with her every single day. everybody cares what she thinks. just 'cause she can do back-flips and stuff.
scene direction: buffy sniffs the milk and puts it on the counter. in the background we see joyce drinking coffee and dawn opening a cabinet to get out a box of cereal. buffy picks up a banana from a bowl of fruit, turns away.
dawn voiceover: like that's *such* a crucial job skill in the real world.
scene direction: as buffy moves to the background of the shot to get a bowl, joyce and dawn move to the foreground. joyce pours milk into her coffee cup. dawn opens the cereal box and sits down.
dawn voiceover: plus mom lets her get away with everything. "your sister's saving the world." joyce moves to the background again as buffy returns with a bowl, which she places on the counter, moving the milk carton aside. she picks up the banana again and turns away, peeling it. dawn takes buffy's bowl and pours cereal into it.
dawn voiceover: *i* could so save the world if somebody handed me super powers...
scene direction: dawn turns away from the table as buffy returns with a knife, prepared to slice the banana into her bowl, but finds the bowl missing. she sees it sitting at dawn's spot full of cereal, and makes an irritated face.
dawn voiceover: ...but i'd think of a cool name and wear a mask to protect my loved ones, which buffy doesn't even.
scene direction: dawn returns with a spoon, wearing an innocent expression. buffy turns away to get another bowl, and dawn picks up the carton of milk. she empties it into her bowl and sits down to eat.
dawn voiceover: if this town wasn't so lame everyone would completely know what she does. and then i bet they wouldn't even be that impressed, because like, killing things with wood? oh, scary vampires, they die from a splinter.
scene direction: buffy returns with another bowl, reaches across dawn for the cereal box, pours it into her bowl, picks up the milk carton and finds it empty. dawn continues eating, pretending not to notice.
joyce: so buffy, what are your plans today?
scene direction: buffy continues giving dawn a dirty look for a moment, then looks away.
buffy: oh, actually, giles and i are gonna go to the magic shop for supplies for my new and improved training sessions.
joyce: oh, that's great.
scene direction: buffy walking to sink, then to fridge
buffy: oh, yeah, i'm actually- joyce:
scene direction: buffy interrupts
buffy: you can take dawn shopping for back to school supplies.
scene direction: dawn puts down her spoon and turns around, preparing to argue.
buffy: what?
dawn: mom, i-i thought you were taking me.
joyce: well, honey, i've got the gurion showing tonight, and there's so much to do to get the gallery ready.
scene direction: joyce turns to leave kitchen.
buffy: no, but, see, mom -- buffy and dawn run after joyce as she walks to the living room.
buffy: that doesn't really work for me. we're just going to the magic shop. no school supplies there.
dawn: yeah, mom, i'm not going to hogwarts.
scene direction: dawn she giggles at her own joke till she notices buffy looking annoyed and confused.
dawn: geez, crack a book sometime.
joyce: look, i'm sure giles doesn't mind dropping you and your sister off at the mall afterwards.
buffy: actually, he does mind. this is supposed to be quality watcher/slayer time. i told you, she completely ruined my training yesterday.
dawn: did not!
buffy: oh, you know you did too.
joyce: buffy. i realize the importance of your new slayer thing, but- knock on door.
joyce: -i could really use your help.
scene direction: she walks past the two girls, both sighing and rolling their eyes in annoyance. they glare at each other as joyce opens the door and riley comes in.
riley: morning, mrs. summers. you look great.
joyce: oh, thank you, riley.
scene direction: joyce exits
scene direction: buffy goes over to riley.
buffy: suck up.
riley: what? it's a nice outfit.
scene direction: dawn pretends not to be watching them.
buffy: mm-hmm.
riley: besides, "i'm here to violate your firstborn" never goes over with parents. not sure why.
scene direction: he and buffy smooch.
dawn voiceover: riley, my sister's boyfriend, is *so* into her. they're always kissing ... and groping. i bet they have sex!
scene direction: riley stops kissing buffy and looks at dawn.
riley: hey, kid.
dawn: i'm not a kid.
scene direction: she walks off as buffy & riley move into the living room.
buffy: well, this is a surprise of the nicest kind.
riley: now it's my turn to be surprised. i thought we had plans today.
scene direction: they sit on the sofa.
buffy: plans? we planned plans?
riley: well, you said, uh, "come over tomorrow and we'll hang," and then i said, "ok." not the invasion of normandy, but still a plan.
scene direction: buffy nods in resignation.
buffy: right.
scene direction: riley studying her expression
riley: we're not hangin' today, are we?
buffy: giles is on his way to pick me up.
riley: oh, slayer training.
buffy: slayer shopping, actually, but equally as important.
riley: i have no doubt. okay, well, we'll hook up later.
scene direction: riley starts to get up
buffy: are you mad at me?
riley: oh, no, not at all. i'm plotting your death, but in a happy way.
scene direction: riley smiles
buffy: good.
riley: look, buffy, i know what this means to you. i think it's great that you've got this new mission. i'll see you tonight.
scene direction: (smooch. riley gets up.)
riley: bye.
scene direction: riley calling
riley: see ya, kid!
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: i'm not a kid!
scene change: cut to a shot of a bright red convertible driving down the street. giles is at the wheel, buffy beside him and dawn in the back. classical music plays on the radio.
giles: well, i sympathize with you, buffy, i truly do. but i'm certain that riley understands better than anyone else the importance of training. you can't allow personal concerns to distract you from-
scene direction: giles dawn reaches between them to change the radio station
giles: dawn, will you stop fiddling with the radio and sit down?
scene direction: dawn sits back, looking exasperated. the radio plays classical music.
dawn voiceover: i don't think buffy's watcher likes me too much.
scene direction: shot of dawn back in her room, writing in her diary.
dawn voiceover: i think it's 'cause he's just so ... old. i'm not sure how old he is, but i heard him use the word "newfangled" one time. so he's gotta be pretty far gone.
scene direction: cut back to dawn fidgeting in the backseat of the car.
scene direction: buffy studying a piece of paper
buffy: there's a lot of books on this list. any of them come on tape? you know, read by george clooney or someone cute like that?
giles: you're entering a new realm here, buffy. one for which i myself am not entirely prepared. are you ready for this commitment?
buffy: i'm just kidding! hey, this betty's ready. color me committed.
scene direction: the car engine races as giles tries to shift.
giles: blast!
buffy: you put it in neutral again, huh?
giles: i'm just not used to this automatic transmission. i-i loathe this sitting here, not contributing.
scene direction: shot of dawn looking surprised.
giles: no, i-it's not working out.
buffy: giles, are you breaking up with your car?
giles: well, it did seduce me, all red and sporty!
buffy: little two-door tramp.
scene direction: giles gives her a sour look.
giles: i-i-i don't know, i just - i was so at loose ends, i-i found myself searching for ... some way of feeling more...
buffy: shallow?
giles: perhaps, as i am to act as your watcher again, a modicum of respect might be in order.
buffy: do i have to?
giles: i'm serious, buffy, there's going to be far less time for the sort of flighty, frivolous- dawn:
scene direction: giles pointing
giles: hey, there's willow and tara!
giles: ooh, they haven't seen my new car.
scene direction: he pulls over. buffy rolls her eyes at him. we see willow and tara coming out of the coffee shop.
willow: hey giles, sharp wheels!
tara: the rest of the car's nice too.
scene direction: everyone gets out of the car.
giles: handles like a dream.
buffy: where are you guys heading?
willow: magic shop. i have some charms on back order.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: willow, hi.
willow: hey dawny!
scene direction: willow they hug
willow: how's my favorite chess partner? still leading with your knight?
scene direction: dawn shrugs in embarrassment.
dawn voiceover: willow's the awesomest person.
scene direction: cut back to dawn in pajamas, now lying on her bed writing in the diary with a smile.
dawn voiceover: she's the only one i know who likes school as much as me.
scene direction: cut back to the street. dawn smiles at willow, then the camera pans over to tara.
dawn voiceover: even her friends are cool!
scene direction: tara smiles and gives a little wave.
tara: hey dawn.
dawn voiceover: like tara.
scene direction: dawn voiceover cut back to dawn in the bedroom
dawn voiceover: she and willow are both witches. they do spells and stuff, which is so much cooler than slaying. i told mom one time i wished they'd teach me some of the things they do together. a-and then she got really quiet and made me go upstairs.
scene direction: dawn voiceover she pauses in her writing and looks puzzled.
dawn voiceover: huh. i guess her generation isn't cool with witchcraft.
scene direction: cut back to the street. dawn and tara are walking side-by-side, with giles ahead of them and buffy and willow in the lead.
buffy: so giles and i worked out a whole schedule around school. a block of time every day just to focus on my new slayer training.
willow: that's a work ethic! buffy, you're developing a work ethic.
buffy: oh, no. do they make an ointment for that?
willow: people gotta respect a solid work ethic. look at you, motivated buffy. eager to soak up learning. oh, you and i are gonna have so much fun this semester.
scene direction: buffy stops walking, and so do the rest of them
buffy: yeah, that reminds me. with the whole new training schedule, i kinda had to drop a class.
willow: that's understandable. your slayer studies are way more important.
buffy: so i won't be taking drama with you.
scene direction: in the background we see tara and dawn peering in the windows of the magic shop.
willow: what? you have to, you promised!
buffy: well, i know, but giles said that it just was-
scene direction: buffy gesturing to giles who's behind her, looking in the opposite direction
willow: the hell with giles.
scene direction: willow giles turns in surprise
giles: i can hear you, willow.
willow: drama is just tuesday and thursday afternoons. you can blow off training tuesday and thursday afternoons, can't you?
buffy: what happened to "people gotta respect a work ethic"?
willow: other people, not me! there's a whole best friend loophole.
scene direction: tara calling to them
tara: shop's kinda dark. maybe it's closed.
giles: that's odd.
scene direction: everyone looks bemused and walks toward the magic shop.
scene change: cut to interior of the magic shop as giles opens the door and walks in. it's dark and the furniture is overturned. giles and buffy walk in slowly, followed by the others, all looking around.
buffy: well, i think "odd" just got upped to "bad." giles:
scene direction: buffy calling
buffy: hello? anyone here?
tara: mr. bogarty?
scene direction: everyone looks at tara.
tara: the owner. i-i come in here a lot.
scene direction: willow advances farther into the store.
willow: well, maybe this happened ... really late at night when nobody was...
scene direction: she trips over something and falls to the floor.
buffy: will?
scene direction: tara comes forward.
willow: i'm fine, i - i just tripped over...
scene direction: she sits up and sees the body. he's lying face-up and we can see vampire bite marks on his neck.
willow: mr. bogarty.
scene direction: dawn behind buffy and giles
dawn: wha-what is it, is he okay?
scene direction: she tries to move forward but buffy pushes her back.
buffy: it's nothing you need to see, dawn, go wait outside.
scene direction: buffy hustles her toward the door with a hand on dawn's elbow.
dawn: i don't wanna wait outside!
buffy: dawn!
dawn: ow, that hurt!
scene direction: dawn buffy pushes her out the door onto the street
dawn: you're hurting me. i'm telling.
buffy: look, i don't have time for this. just do as i say and wait.
scene direction: she starts off, then turns back.
buffy: here.
scene direction: buffy goes back inside. dawn sighs in annoyance, walks around a little, then goes back and peers between the blinds. inside the shop she can see buffy, tara and willow standing around as giles kneels beside the body.
guy: whatcha doin'?
scene direction: dawn turns with a gasp. a scruffy older man is standing there, unshaven, his tie loose.
guy: what are you doing here? you can't loiter. there's no loitering.
scene direction: he advances on dawn as she backs up, scared.
guy: that's why i'm a cat. quiet. see, cat's in the cupboard
scene direction: guy making cat-scratching gestures with his hands
guy: but they find you there anyway, and it hurts.
scene direction: dawn has backed up against a van. she looks around, scared.
scene direction: guy sobbing
guy: please, make it stop.
scene direction: guy in a different tone
guy: shut up, shut up, they'll hear you!
scene direction: dawn tries to call out
dawn: buff-
scene direction: dawn shrieks as the guy puts his finger on her lips
guy: i know you. curds and whey.
scene direction: guy dawn looks shocked
guy: i know what you are.
scene direction: guy slowly and ominously
guy: you ... don't ... belong ... here.
scene direction: dawn shakes her head, looks on the verge of tears. blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: cut in on the outer door to the magic shop. it opens and tara comes out. she looks around.
tara: dawn?
scene direction: she walks out a little farther, looking around.
tara: dawn?
scene direction: she looks down and sees dawn sitting on the ground, leaning against a building.
tara: dawn. you okay?
dawn: is ... is that guy dead in there?
scene direction: tara nods.
tara: yeah.
scene direction: she sits down next to dawn.
tara: they're gonna be a little while longer, doing the detective thing. best non-scoobies like you and me stay out of the way.
scene direction: dawn nods. they sit silently for a few moments.
tara: do you wanna thumb-wrestle?
scene direction: dawn nods again.
dawn: okay.
scene direction: they lock their hands together and begin to thumb-wrestle.
scene change: cut to a shot of the dead guy lying face-up. giles' hands reach over and close his eyes.
buffy: judging by the bite-fest, i'd say it was more than one vampire.
scene direction: giles standing up
giles: i make it four at least.
buffy: looks like someone's put together a new fang club.
scene direction: buffy walks to the counter. willow is behind it, holding a book.
willow: well, i've cross-checked the inventory list, and things are definitely missing.
scene direction: willow puts inventory book on the counter
willow: mostly books. including a treatise on the mythology and methodology of the vampire slayer.
scene direction: buffy pulls out her list as giles picks up the inventory book.
buffy: oh, shoot! was that the only copy?
giles: come on, buffy, this could be very serious. whoever's leading this pack of vampires appears to be interested in learning more about you. perhaps searching for weaknesses or ... good lord.
buffy: what?
giles: well, i had no idea the profit margins on a shop like this were so high.
scene direction: buffy and willow exchange a look.
giles: look at this! uh, low overhead, out-of-state orders, international - it's no wonder there's never any trouble attracting new owners.
scene direction: giles looking around
giles: a place like this is a virtual- buffy: deathtrap?
giles: what? well, uh, yes, there is that. but, uh, still...
scene direction: giles puts book down and looks around some more
giles: location, pedestrian traffic...
willow: so what's the next step?
scene direction: giles still gazing around
giles: buffy, you should begin looking for their lair straight away.
buffy: i'll get riley to help me patrol.
willow: wait, aren't you forgetting something?
giles: impressive square footage...
scene direction: he walks off as buffy gives willow a questioning look.
willow: you're on dawn duty.
scene direction: buffy looks annoyed.
buffy: oh, duty. i gotta drop my sister back home.
scene direction: buffy eyes widening
buffy: my mother's gonna *kill* me.
scene direction: giles wandering back into view
giles: i bet the death rate keeps the rent down.
scene direction: giles pauses
giles: oh, hello. something's been taken from this case, look here.
scene direction: he goes over to a case where the glass has been knocked out.
buffy: what'd they take?
scene direction: willow looks in the inventory book.
giles: i should think an item of, of value, or-or power, possibly even a- willow: a unicorn. 10-inch ceramic unicorn imported from thailand.
buffy: was it valuable?
scene direction: giles stares in puzzlement at the empty case.
scene direction: willow os
willow: list price, $12.95.
giles: which begs the question, what kind of an unholy creature fancies cheap tasteless statuary?
scene change: cut to head shot of harmony.
harmony: okay, hi. first of all, i wanna thank everybody for a really successful raid on the magic shop last night.
scene direction: harmony applauding
harmony: good job, minions!
scene direction: we see harmony in the underground lair, wearing a skimpy black top and shiny gold pants. four male vampires are standing around. they applaud along with her, a little uncertainly. they are brad, cyrus, peaches, and mort. mort is very tall and large, whereas the others are fairly average-sized.
harmony: yes, you deserve it. secondly...
scene direction: harmony turns away to reach for something
harmony: somebody remembered to pick me up the sweetest little unicorn!
scene direction: harmony holds up the ceramic unicorn and smiles at brad. the other vamps stare at him.
scene direction: brad whispering to other vamps
brad: what?
harmony: brad, guess someone was feeling guilty for standing me up in the tenth grade.
scene direction: harmony admiring the unicorn
scene direction: brad to other vamps
brad: i, i had to get her something. she sired me.
scene direction: peaches to cyrus
peaches: sire-whipped.
scene direction: we see mort adding the unicorn to a large collection of other unicorn statues sitting on a table.
harmony: anyway, the books you guys brought me to help with the plan? well, i've been skimming through the book jackets all morning, and let me tell you, there's some pretty useful stuff in there, so- cyrus raises his hand.
harmony: yes, uh ... sorry, forgot your name.
cyrus: cyrus.
harmony: cyrus, huh, right. peaches' friend.
scene direction: harmony peaches nods
harmony: what's your question?
cyrus: when are we gonna do it?
harmony: eww! that's rude! i barely know you!
scene direction: harmony cyrus looks sideways at the other vamps in confusion
harmony: uch, and you're a minion!
mort: he means the plan! when are we gonna do the plan?
harmony: ohhh! the plan!
scene direction: harmony laughs in embarrassment
harmony: ah, well, first lemme tell you i'm really psyched about it and i hope the rest of you guys- mort:
scene direction: harmony yelling
harmony: when?!
scene direction: harmony yelling
harmony: tonight!
scene direction: harmony more calmly
harmony: we kill the slayer ... tonight.
scene direction: harmony smiles in self-satisfaction.
scene direction: the other vamps grin and nod at each other.
scene change: cut to dawn sitting on her bed holding her diary, wearing the same clothes she was wearing at the magic shop.
joyce voiceover: so not only didn't you take your sister shopping for school supplies- dawn listens in. cut to joyce's bedroom. while buffy and joyce argue, joyce walks back and forth getting dressed and putting on jewelry.
joyce: -you brought her to a murder scene.
buffy: no, i didn't bring her to it, it ... just ... sorta came upon us. it's not like she saw the body or anything.
joyce: oh, well. that makes it all right then, doesn't it?
buffy: no, that is not what i meant.
joyce: i asked one favor of you, buffy. to look after your sister. and now you want to unload her, so you and riley can go out.
buffy: to patrol. i'm working, it's not like i wanna go to the sock hop.
joyce: i have to be at the pre-show reception in half an hour. who's gonna watch dawn?
scene direction: dawn os, calling from her room
dawn: i don't need anyone to watch me!
scene direction: buffy and joyce unison
buffy and joyce: yes you do!
scene direction: joyce walks into the bathroom.
buffy: wait. so what you're saying is if i can get an acceptable babysitter here before you leave, i can go patrol?
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: babysitter? i'm fourteen! i'm old enough to *be* a babysitter!
joyce: and who are you gonna get on such short notice?
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: i can take care of myself!
scene direction: buffy suddenly realizing
buffy: xander.
joyce: xander?
scene direction: sound of running footsteps. joyce and buffy look up as dawn appears in the doorway.
dawn: okay.
scene direction: doorbell rings.
scene change: cut to dawn running up to the front door, pausing to fix her hair. she's wearing a tight short dress. she opens the door. xander stands there holding a pizza.
xander: dawn patrol.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: hey.
xander: check this out, they put cheese on round bread. it's gonna be big.
scene direction: he comes in. dawn watches him with a smile as joyce appears, putting on a jacket. we see her and xander talking, but we only hear dawn's voiceover.
dawn voiceover: xander is so much cuter than anyone. and smarter too. he totally skipped college and got a job working construction. which is so kind of ... deep, you know? he builds things. and he's brave too.
scene change: cut to dawn in her pajamas, lying on the bed and writing in her diary.
dawn voiceover: just last week he went undercover to stop that dracula guy.
joyce: xander, thanks for doing this.
xander: total non-sweat.
joyce: again, thanks for coming. oh, uh, here is my card. if you have any problems, you just call me on the cell phone.
scene direction: cut back to downstairs as joyce gives xander her card.
xander: have fun. not too much fun, though.
scene direction: xander although we can hear this line and it sounds like xander's voice, we see his face, and it's clear that his lips aren't moving.
joyce: dawn, be good.
scene direction: joyce kisses dawn goodbye
xander: oh, we will. we're just gonna play with matches, run with scissors, take candy from ... some guy ... i don't know his name.
scene direction: xander winks at dawn. joyce leaves, and dawn, smiling at xander, starts to shut the door.
dawn voiceover: xander treats everyone like an equal. he doesn't look down on people.
scene direction: anya appears in the doorway, preventing dawn from closing the door. anya carries a stack of board-game boxes.
anya: hello there, little girl.
scene direction: dawn's happy expression turns to one of dismay.
dawn voiceover: even when he should.
scene direction: anya talking as if to a very small child
anya: we are gonna have fun, fun, fun. look, i've got monopoly, clue, and ooh, the game of life! that sounds good!
scene direction: dawn looks upset. she closes the door.
scene direction: tara os
tara: poor dawn.
scene change: cut to tara looking at herself in a mirror, which is above a sink with a towel rack beside it.
tara: she was pretty shaken up.
willow: well, sure. bloody death and stuff.
scene direction: the camera pans out and we see they are in a dorm room, unpacking. willow goes to hang a painting while tara is unpacking bathroom stuff from a box.
willow: she'll be okay.
tara: it's just ... i, i think it's tough for her, not being able to ... well, allowed to, you know, help.
scene direction: willow tries the painting in a few places, then puts it atop a bureau and begins unpacking another box.
willow: help?
tara: oh, you. you guys. the slayer circle.
willow: well, buffy doesn't really need ... a-and i think dawn's a little young.
tara: i-i know, you're right. it's just hard. that outsider feeling.
scene direction: willow looks over at her.
willow: tara ... you're not an outsider.
tara: well, yeah. i kinda am.
scene direction: willow walking toward her
willow: no, you're not.
tara: willow, it's okay. where does this go?
willow: somebody making you feel uncomfortable? is it xander? it's xander, isn't it?
tara: no, xander's a sweetie.
willow: it's giles! it's 'cause he's ... british and doesn't understand about stuff.
tara: it's no one.
scene direction: tara continues taking stuff out of the box
tara: you guys all just have this really tight bond. it's-it's hard to break into that. and i'm not even sure i want to.
scene direction: willow walks up behind tara and puts her arms around tara's waist, resting her chin on tara's shoulder.
willow: i'm sure.
scene direction: tara puts her hands over willow's.
willow: you're completely one of the gang now. everyone accepts that.
scene direction: closeup of their faces as they both smile.
willow: you're one of the good guys.
scene direction: tara's smile disappears and she pulls away, disengaging herself from willow's embrace. willow doesn't notice her expression.
willow: maybe i can talk to the rest of the group and we can do something, some kind of scooby initiation.
scene direction: willow they both return to what they were doing
willow: oh! maybe we could wear some kind of special ring that identifies us as members.
tara: i don't think so. but maybe something like that would be nice for dawn. i do worry about her sometimes.
willow: you don't have to. she's got big sister buffy happily looking out for her.
scene change: cut to buffy and riley walking through a graveyard.
buffy: so then my mom goes off on me about how i'm supposed to watch out for dawn and make sure that she's shielded from something that might upset her.
riley: like dead shopkeepers.
buffy: she didn't see him! a foot, maybe. a dead foot, which is bad, okay, but hello, i see dead stuff *all* the time, and you don't see mom shielding me.
riley: so you want your mother to give you space to be a slayer, and shield you from it at the same time.
buffy: thank you, logic boy. did i mention this is a rant? sense really has no place in it.
riley: i'm getting that.
scene direction: riley sighs
riley: what's the deal, buffy? you seem really- buffy stops him by putting out a hand. she stops walking and looks intently to her right.
buffy: oh, trash can. from a distance it looked kinda- riley: tense.
buffy: nooo, i-i was gonna say brown, squat, shadowy...
riley: uh-uh. back to what i was saying before we were rudely attacked by nothing. you seem really tense.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: yeah, there's a new vampire gang in town.
riley: i mean domestically tense. you're on dawn's case a lot.
buffy: i guess. it's just...
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i don't know, it ... i know it's always been this way. she's the baby. but for some reason lately, it's just really getting to me. she's *always* around.
riley: well, yeah. you're like her idol, buffy.
buffy: her idol? i don't think so, unless you like to spill things on your idol's new leather pants, and- riley: you know what i mean. you have super powers ... and college ... a studly yet sensitive boyfriend...
buffy: and a pesky life-or-death job that i can't quit or even take a break from.
riley: she doesn't get the sacrifices. she's a kid.
buffy: and that's what bugs. *she* gets to be a kid, and she acts like it's the biggest burden in the world. sometimes *i* would like to just curl up in mom's lap and not worry about the fate of the world. i'd like to be the one who's protected, who's waited on- cut to joyce's house.
dawn: -hand and foot, getting her own way. always the favorite.
scene direction: we see that they're playing the game of life around a low table in the living room, surrounded by various junk food. dawn is eating a bowl of ice cream.
xander: you nut. your mom loves you both equally. but if i'm wrong, i find money usually helps tip the scale. slip joyce a 10 or a 20 once in a while. then we'll see who's the favorite.
scene direction: dawn smiles.
dawn voiceover: he says i'm like a kid sister...
scene direction: xander looking at the game board
xander: here comes the judge!
dawn voiceover: ...but sometimes when he looks at me, i feel like he sees me as i am...
scene direction: xander gives dawn a big goofy grin.
dawn voiceover: ...as a woman.
scene direction: we see that dawn has chocolate ice cream smeared all over her face.
anya: oh, crap.
scene direction: anya slaps down her cards
anya: look at this! now i'm burdened with a husband and several tiny pink children, more cash than i can reasonably manage...
xander: that means you're winning.
anya: really?
xander: yes. cash equals good.
anya: ooh!
scene direction: anya claps her hands in excitement
anya: i'm so pleased.
scene direction: anya scoops up the plastic markers that represent children
anya: can i trade in the children for more cash?
scene direction: dawn gives her a disgusted look.
scene direction: suddenly something smashes in the window, showering them with broken glass. they all duck behind the table. dawn shrieks. xander gets up and goes to see what it was. anya follows. xander picks up a rock with a note tied around it. he unties the string, hands the rock to anya, and reads the note. dawn stays on the floor watching.
xander: "slayer, come out and die." we see the note, written in large letters. the "i" in "die" is dotted with a smiley-face.
scene direction: harmony os
harmony: i'm waiting for you, buffy!
scene direction: xander goes over to the hole in the window and peeks out. he sees harmony, surrounded by her four minions, who carry weapons. harmony looks annoyed.
scene direction: harmony yells
harmony: i know you're in there!
scene change: cut to xander standing in the doorway, holding the front door open.
scene direction: harmony os
harmony: what do you mean, she's not in there?
scene direction: xander looks unimpressed.
harmony: she has to be. i'm calling her out!
scene direction: we see anya and dawn a few feet behind xander.
xander: then i bet she'll be real sorry she missed your call. 'fraid you and your buddies are gonna have to come back and be killed by buffy later.
scene direction: harmony scornful
harmony: they're not my buddies. they're my minions.
xander: they're ... what now?
harmony: minions! you know, lackeys? they work for me.
scene direction: xander looks skeptical. then he starts laughing.
harmony: what's so funny?!
xander: nothing! what could be funny, just "look out, it's a terrifying harmony gang, ooh!"
scene direction: xander laughing
harmony: stop laughing!
scene direction: harmony tries to attack him, but she can't go past the doorway. dawn ducks behind anya. xander continues laughing
xander: i just, i just can't picture anyone pathetic enough to be following-
scene direction: xander looks at the minions again and pretends to be shocked
xander: is that brad konig? huh! hey brad, who'd have thought when you were beating up kids in gym class, you'd end up harmony's lapdog?
brad: screw you, harris.
harmony: you should know all about being somebody's lapdog. i hear you were a good little puppy for dracula.
scene direction: anya and dawn look insulted on xander's behalf.
xander: you heard wrong.
scene direction: harmony laughs
harmony: don't feel bad. i hear that mind-control thing he does works really well on weak fraidy-cat losers. you didn't stand a chance.
scene direction: dawn still behind anya
dawn: shut up!
xander: dawn, i'm handling this. shut up, harmony!
harmony: make me.
xander: 'fraid i don't feel like getting into another hair-pulling contest with you.
harmony: you're the hair-puller, you big girl!
dawn: oh yeah? come inside and say that! xander will kick your- anya: dawn, no!
scene direction: xander makes his "uh-oh" face.
scene direction: harmony morphs into vampire face and lunges at xander, shoving him to the floor as dawn shrieks. blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: harmony is on top of xander, holding him down as he struggles. dawn shrieks and pushes past anya to run up the stairs. the minions rush to the door but can't enter.
xander: the invitation was for one.
scene direction: the minions snarl. anya turns and runs into another room.
harmony: not such a pushover any more, am i?
scene direction: harmony punches xander in the face a few times
scene direction: anya running around
anya: slayer's house have more weapons lying around.
scene direction: anya picks up a lamp
harmony: i've been working out, learning some new tricks, honing my - she bends to bite xander as anya runs up with the lamp. harmony straightens up and backhands anya, breaking the lamp and sending anya flying.
harmony: instincts.
scene direction: xander kicks harmony in the stomach and she flies backward out the front door, crashing into the minions. they all fall down the porch stairs. xander and anya rush to close the door and lean against it, looking out at the vampires.
harmony: this isn't over, xander! i'll be back!
xander: and we'll be ready for you! stakes ... crosses ... the whole enchilada.
scene direction: he and anya pull their heads away from the windows.
xander: buffy is not going to be happy about this.
scene direction: anya shakes her head in agreement.
scene change: cut to buffy laughing hysterically.
buffy: harmony ...
scene direction: buffy laughing
buffy: harmony has minions?
scene direction: we see buffy and riley in the kitchen laughing, along with anya and xander, who aren't laughing.
xander: yeah, that was pretty much my reaction.
buffy: i'm sorry, i'm sorry.
scene direction: buffy clear throat and stops laughing
buffy: it's just ... harmony has minions!
scene direction: buffy starts laughing again
xander: and ruffles have ridges. uh, buffy, there's actually a more serious side to all this.
buffy: i sure hope so, 'cause i'm having trouble breathing.
scene direction: buffy giggles, then stops and takes a deep breath
buffy: what is it?
scene direction: xander nervously, looking at anya
xander: well, she did come here to kill you.
scene direction: buffy bursts out laughing again. riley also snickers.
scene direction: riley chuckling
riley: buffy, come on, they have killed once that we know of. she could be a threat to you.
scene direction: riley buffy laughs harder
anya: especially now that she can enter your house any time she wants.
scene direction: buffy stops laughing for real this time.
buffy: what?
scene direction: xander and anya fidget.
xander: uh, yeah, actually, she -- harmony -- kind of happened to sort of get an invite.
buffy: you guys can't invite her in. i mean, only someone who lives here can-
scene direction: buffy the clue hits. xander nods. buffy frowns.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: where is she?
anya: in her room. look, i think she's still pretty freaked out.
buffy: dawn!
scene direction: buffy starts to stomp out. xander stops her
xander: buff, it was an accident. she didn't mean it.
buffy: oh, well that just makes it okay then, doesn't it?
scene direction: buffy stomps out
scene direction: xander calling after her
xander: no, but believe me, nobody feels worse than her right now.
scene change: cut to harmony and minions walking through a dark graveyard.
harmony: what a total disaster. my first plan! i so wanted it to go well. plus, i didn't even get to kill stupid xander harris! god, that was so embarrassing.
mort: we'll go back later.
harmony: no! it's no good. buffy's gonna expect us now. the whole surprise is blown.
scene direction: peaches to cyrus
peaches: who're you growling at?
cyrus: not me, my stomach. if i don't eat somebody soon, i-i'll get dizzy.
peaches: let's go back to the lair. that census taker may not be empty yet.
brad: not me. this night is young, and i want some action.
scene direction: a hand taps brad on the shoulder, and when he turns, it punches him in the face. he goes down. the other three minions turn.
spike: happy to oblige. here i thought it was gonna be a slow night.
scene direction: spike puffing on a cigarette, sizing up the minions
spike: step on up, kiddies. thrashings for all.
scene direction: the minions start forward.
harmony: stop!
scene direction: she emerges from behind mort. spike looks surprised.
spike: well. hello, harm.
harmony: spikey. i mean, spike.
spike: long time. you look good.
harmony: i feel good.
scene direction: spike smirks
spike: i remember.
scene direction: they both grin.
harmony: how've you been?
scene direction: spike shrugs
spike: not bad. just got a brand-new telly in my crypt, so...
scene direction: mort walking up behind harmony
mort: why are you talking to him?
harmony: it's okay, we used to go steady.
scene direction: harmony sighs
harmony: spike, mort. mort, this is- mort: i know who he is. he kills our kind.
harmony: oh yeah!
scene direction: harmony to spike
harmony: hat's up with that?
scene direction: spike shrugs
spike: bloke's gotta have a hobby, don't he? piss off, mort.
scene direction: mort growls and steps forward, but harmony stops him.
harmony: mort, just give us ... a couple minutes, 'kay?
scene direction: harmony turns back to spike
harmony: he's really testy. some of us were thinking of voting him out of the gang.
scene direction: harmony she and spike step aside where the minions can't overhear.
spike: gang?
harmony: oh, yeah. i've got my own gang now.
scene direction: spike checking out the minions
spike: is that what those circus freaks are?
harmony: uh huh. i mean ... shut up!
scene direction: harmony spike grins
harmony: we're gonna kill the slayer.
spike: singing my song now, are you? you should pay me royalties for that one, or at least get your own tune.
harmony: i'm not gonna make the same mistakes you did. i've been doing my homework, reading books and stuff.
spike: what, evil for dummies?
scene direction: spike walks around her
spike: look at you, all puffed up and mighty, thinking you're the new big bad. it's, uh ... well, let's face it, it's adorable.
harmony: you just can't stand the fact that i'm my own person now. there comes a time in every woman's life when she realizes she needs to take the next step. i've taken it. i've found the real me... and i like her.
scene direction: spike moves closer to her during this speech until their faces are inches away.
spike: hope you'll be very happy together. in the meantime, save slayer slaying for the professionals.
scene direction: harmony sighs
harmony: you'll see. buffy'll be dead by sunrise. i've got a plan.
scene direction: spike chuckling
spike: lemme guess. snatch one of her friends, use 'em as bait, lead her into a trap. that sort of thing?
scene direction: harmony bluffing
harmony: no! much, much better one.
scene direction: harmony spike looks skeptical.
harmony: i'm not gonna tell you!
spike: thought as much. best of luck. let me know how this arch-villain thing works out for you.
scene direction: spike backs away and walks off
harmony: i'll do that.
scene direction: harmony shouting after him
harmony: and after buffy is gone? i'm gonna kill everybody in this town that was ever mean to me ... spike!
scene direction: spike waves a hand over his shoulder as he walks off. harmony sighs, then turns back to the minions.
scene direction: harmony smiling
harmony: guys! new plan.
scene change: cut to buffy laying out a huge array of stakes and crosses on her bed as riley watches.
riley: that's a lot of weapons for somebody you weren't sweating twenty minutes ago.
buffy: well, that was before dawn gave harmony a backstage pass to kill us all in our sleep.
xander: buff, i left word with willow. she'll come do a return engagement of her un-invitation spell. she probably still has the stuff from last week. and bang, boom, you're back in the fortress of solitude. all better.
buffy: no. not all better. i mean, it's not like dawn hasn't grown up in this house knowing all the rules.
scene change: cut to the hallway where we see dawn listening in.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: especially the biggie! numero one-oh. "do not invite bloodsucking dead people into our house."
scene direction: buffy dawn rolls her eyes
scene direction: cut back to the bedroom.
buffy: i mean, please. i would never have harmony over even when she was alive.
xander: people slip, buffy. your mom did. she invited in the mas-
scene direction: xander catches himself
xander: dracula. in for coffee.
scene direction: buffy and riley give xander an odd look.
buffy: well, that was different. i mean, she ... he would ... she was lonely, and, and, and she didn't know he was a vampire. *the* vampire. meanwhile, dawn knew exactly what harmony was and she rolled out the welcome mat for her.
scene direction: cut back to dawn in the hallway.
scene direction: riley os
riley: she's just a kid.
scene direction: riley dawn rolls her eyes
scene direction: cut back to the bedroom.
buffy: you know, will everybody please stop saying that? i was just a kid when i met my first vampire, but somehow, i still managed to remember the rules.
riley: you had to. it was your job.
scene direction: buffy putting on a jacket
buffy: no. no, it was common sense. but nobody expects even that much from dawn, do they? no, she has to be protected and coddled from the big bad world, well you know what? we are doing nothing but turning her into a little idiot who is going to get us all killed.
scene direction: cut back to the hallway. dawn makes an unhappy face.
scene direction: cut back to the bedroom. xander and riley look displeased, but they don't argue any more.
scene direction: cut back to the hallway. dawn turns and walks away.
scene direction: cut back to the bedroom. buffy sighs and speaks more quietly.
buffy: she just has to be more careful. now, i can't be there to protect her 24 hours a day. i-i just can't.
scene change: cut to dawn running through the downstairs part of the house, passing by anya in the kitchen.
anya: hey! don't!
scene direction: dawn runs out the back door and anya follows.
anya: dawn!
scene direction: dawn stops a few feet outside the door and puts her hands to her face, as if trying not to cry. anya grabs her shoulder, startling her.
anya: what do you think you're doing?
dawn: leave me alone.
anya: i will after you come back inside the house.
scene direction: anya grabs dawn and starts shoving her back toward the door.
dawn: let go of me!
scene direction: dawn breaks free
anya: no, it's not safe out here!
scene direction: dawn shrieks as mort steps from behind a bush, wearing his vamp face.
mort: you got that right.
scene direction: he hits anya, sending her flying back inside, where she falls on the kitchen floor unconscious. mort grabs dawn and passes her to the other minions, who herd her away shrieking. mort pauses to look at anya lying on the floor, then follows the other minions. blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: xander, riley and buffy come down the stairs and find anya on the kitchen floor.
xander: anya!
scene direction: xander and riley kneel to lift anya up. buffy goes to look out the door.
scene direction: anya half conscious
anya: oh, vampires took...
riley: this head wound looks bad. we gotta get her to the hospital.
scene direction: buffy goes to the phone.
scene direction: anya murmuring
anya: they took her...
xander: shh, shh.
anya: dawn.
buffy: dawn? wha-what about dawn?
anya: she ran out ... they took her ... vampires...
buffy: oh god. oh god. uh, take care of anya.
scene direction: buffy hands the phone to riley and runs out
riley: buffy!
scene change: cut to the underground lair. the minions look a little impatient.
harmony: all right, once again, nice work, minionators. i'm really, really proud of you guys.
scene direction: harmony mort comes in
harmony: ah, mort. i trust you made our guest ... comfortable?
scene direction: mort confused
mort: you told me to chain her to a wall.
harmony: yeah, i know, i'm being, you know, sarcastic or whatever?
scene direction: harmony mort looks blank
harmony: anyway...
scene direction: harmony turns back to the other minions
harmony: i'm feeling really good about this new plan, people. i think it's a winner.
cyrus: when do we eat the girl?
harmony: we don't. not yet.
cyrus: why not?
harmony: because! that's not the plan!
scene direction: harmony sighs
harmony: do i have to go over the plan again? we use the sister as bait. we send buffy a note- peaches: more notes?
scene direction: harmony annoyed
harmony: we send buffy a note, telling her that if she wants to see her sister again, she has to come alone to a place we choose. she comes, we jump her, we kill her.
scene direction: harmony peaches nods.
mort: so it doesn't really matter if we're actually holding the slayer's sister, just as long as she thinks we are. she'll walk into the trap.
harmony: i guess.
cyrus: so it won't make any difference if we eat the girl now.
harmony: we're not eating the girl.
peaches: why not?
harmony: cause! that's not the plan.
scene direction: all the minions look dissatisfied.
scene change: cut to a tv showing mostly static. spike bangs on it and fiddles with the knobs and antenna for a while, with no results.
spike: bollocks. gonna have to pinch one of those satellite dishes.
scene direction: he looks up as the door bangs open and buffy strides in.
spike: well, speaking of dishes, to what do i owe this unpleasant-
scene direction: spike buffy hits him in the face
spike: ow! bloody hell!
scene direction: buffy grabbing his shirt
buffy: i don't have time for banter, spike. where's harmony's lair?
spike: haven't seen her in months. how should i know-
scene direction: spike buffy hits him in the face again
spike: ow!
buffy: where is she?
spike: at least lay off the nose.
scene direction: spike buffy pulls back her fist
spike: okay! okay! used to have a cave in the north woods. about forty meters past the overpass construction site.
scene direction: buffy punches him in the nose again, then lets go and turns to leave.
spike: ow! i was telling you the truth!
scene direction: buffy leaving
buffy: i know.
scene direction: spike rubs his nose and glares after her.
scene change: cut to the lair.
harmony: they don't respect me. they pretend they do, but deep down they think i'm nothing.
scene direction: we see that she's talking to dawn, who's chained to a wall with her wrists at head height.
harmony: i mean, i'm the one who put this group together. me! but they treat me like i don't even matter. do you have any idea what that feels like?
dawn: a little.
scene direction: harmony whining
harmony: they have no idea how much pressure i'm under. i have to make all the hard decisions. and it's hard!
scene direction: dawn gasps. harmony turns to see mort leading the other minions in, all wearing vamp faces.
harmony: excuse me, i didn't hear anybody knock.
mort: we've been talking it over, and we decided we don't like this plan.
scene direction: peaches scornfully
peaches: except for brad. he abstained.
scene direction: harmony angry
harmony: oh really? you have a plan you like better?
mort: we're gonna feed on the girl and kill you.
scene direction: dawn looks scared.
mort: maybe not in that order.
harmony: i don't think i like your attitude, mort.
scene direction: harmony to the others
harmony: kill him for me.
scene direction: the other minions don't move. mort smirks.
harmony: all right. you're all on my list.
scene direction: harmony looks nervous as mort advances toward her
harmony: th-this isn't fair. okay, so things haven't been perfect. i just need a little more time to grow into my leadership role.
mort: time's up.
scene direction: he grabs her by the throat. dawn watches fearfully as cyrus walks toward her.
scene direction: dawn nervous
dawn: touch me and my sister's gonna kill you.
scene direction: cyrus smirks and reaches out one finger. he pokes her in the shoulder and laughs. the other minions laugh too. suddenly the point of a stake shoots through cyrus from behind. he stops laughing and turns to dust. mort lets go of harmony and they both turn, as do the other minions, who are holding weapons.
buffy: can't say she didn't warn him.
scene direction: harmony to mort
harmony: and you didn't like the plan.
buffy: dawn, close your eyes.
scene direction: dawn does so.
harmony: so, slayer, at last we meet.
buffy: we've met, harmony, you halfwit.
harmony: i'm the halfwit? um, excuse me, but look who's fallen into my- peaches attacks buffy with a large axe. she ducks his swing and stakes him. as he turns to dust, buffy grabs the axe from him, brad attacks, and buffy chops off his head. dawn scrunches her eyes together tightly.
harmony: trap.
buffy: harmony, when you tried to be head cheerleader, you were bad. when you tried to chair the homecoming committee, you were really bad. but when you try to be bad ... you *suck*.
scene direction: during this speech we see mort moving around behind buffy. dawn opens her eyes and sees him.
dawn: buffy, watch out!
scene direction: buffy turns and swings the axe but mort knocks it out of her grasp and knocks her down.
harmony: ooh, good shot, mort, i think you got her on the- mort glares at her. harmony laughs nervously, turns and runs away.
scene direction: mort swings at buffy; she punches him, grabs a large stick and hits him with it. he punches her. she ducks a few more punches and lands one on him.
scene direction: shot of dawn struggling against her chains as sounds of battle continue.
scene direction: buffy kicks mort a few times, he hits her a few times and she goes down. he picks her up and throws her. she gets up and they exchange more punches and kicks. mort grabs buffy by the neck and lifts her off the ground. she looks around and notices a large unicorn statue nearby. she shoves mort away, lands on the ground, grabs the unicorn and stabs him through the heart with it. he turns to dust. buffy scowls at the unicorn, then shrugs and puts it down.
scene direction: buffy strides toward dawn, picking up the axe along the way.
buffy: you are going to be in so much trouble when we get home.
scene direction: buffy strikes at the chains with the axe
dawn: yeah, well ... i'm telling mom you slayed in front of me.
buffy: fine. i'll just tell her that you ran out of the house in the middle of the night,
scene direction: buffy another strike at the chains
buffy: that you got anya hurt,
scene direction: buffy another strike
buffy: invited a vampire in,
scene direction: buffy strike
buffy: got kidnapped...
scene change: cut to exterior shot of joyce's house, night.
scene change: cut to interior of the kitchen. buffy and dawn enter, moving quietly, looking around guiltily. just as buffy closes the back door, joyce comes in the front door.
joyce: sorry it ran so late. everything, uh, go okay?
scene direction: buffy and dawn look at each other.
buffy: yeah. yeah, you know ... i got the vamps and we watched some tv.
scene direction: joyce smiles
joyce: well, i know at least one of us who's supposed to be in bed by now.
scene direction: dawn obediently kisses joyce and exits.
joyce: night.
buffy: so how was the exhibit?
scene direction: joyce opening the fridge
joyce: oh, it was fantastic.
scene direction: we see dawn looking back at them as she walks toward the stairs.
dawn voiceover: buffy probably would've gotten in way more trouble than me anyway.
scene change: cut to the magic shop, day. dawn is sitting at a table writing in her diary.
dawn voiceover: but i guess it was pretty okay of her not to say anything to mom. anya's gonna be okay, and xander wasn't mad at me. so stuff mostly worked out.
scene direction: the camera pans over dawn to the counter, where we see buffy leaning against it.
buffy: giles, are you sure about this?
scene direction: giles stands up behind the counter.
giles: why wouldn't i be?
buffy: well, aside from the fact that most magic shop owners in sunnydale have the life expectancy of a spinal tap drummer ... and, have you ever run a store before?
giles: i was a librarian for years. this is exactly the same, except people pay for the things they don't return.
scene direction: giles comes out from behind counter
giles: it'll give me focus. increase my resources. and it'll prevent you lot from trampling all over my flat at all hours.
scene direction: giles he and buffy walk toward the back
giles: there may even be some space for you to train in the back.
buffy: boy, you've really thought this through. how bored *were* you last year?
giles: i watched passions with spike. let us never speak of it.
scene direction: giles exits
scene direction: buffy follows him out, laughing. a moment later she reappears in the doorway.
buffy: don't. break. anything.
scene direction: dawn gives her an exasperated look. buffy goes out, then comes back in again.
buffy: just don't *touch* anything.
scene direction: buffy exits
dawn voiceover: not that buffy's really changed at all. like she ever would.
scene direction: buffy reappears in the doorway.
buffy: what you're doing right now, not moving?
scene direction: buffy makes the "okay" sign with her fingers
buffy: good. keep doing that.
scene direction: buffy exits
dawn: she still thinks i'm little miss nobody, just her dumb little sister. boy, is she in for a surprise 