scene direction: fade in on a graveyard, night. camera pans across the crypts and finds buffy crouched on top of one. she stands up, stake in hand. looks around, leaps to the ground.
scene change: cut to buffy running through the graveyard, pausing, looking around.
scene direction: a pair of arms bursts out of a fresh grave but buffy stakes the vampire before it can finish coming out of the ground.
scene direction: buffy straightens up, turns as another vamp emerges from another grave. she ducks his swing, throws a few punches, kicks him in the chest. he does a back-roll and comes up to his feet.
scene direction: riley appears out of nowhere and throws the vamp aside.
buffy: riley?
scene direction: riley smiling
riley: buffy, what are you doing here?
buffy: my job?
riley: well, i just thought you were in the north sector.
buffy: watch out!
scene direction: the vamp attacks riley from behind. he kicks the vamp's legs out from under him and throws him aside. the vamp hits a crypt and slides down.
buffy: never mind.
scene direction: riley punches the vampire, then stakes him.
scene direction: shot of another vamp emerging from the ground. buffy spots him and starts forward with a yell, raising her stake.
scene direction: another person appears from the left side of the screen and tackles the new vamp, carrying him to the ground. buffy looks bemused.
buffy: why do i even bother to show up?
scene direction: the two fighters get up and we see that the newcomer is spike. he blocks a couple of punches from the other vamp, then grabs his arm.
buffy: spike, what are you doing here?
spike: same thing as you and your cub scout here, i'll wager.
scene direction: he lands a few punches and the vamp goes down. spike turns toward buffy with a big grin.
spike: a spot of violence before bedtime.
scene direction: the other vamp punches him in the face and he goes down. he gets to his knees, wiping blood from his nose. the other vamp growls. buffy rushes forward.
scene direction: shot of spike standing up, still wiping his nose with his hand. the other vamp attacks from the left. buffy appears from the right, shoves spike out of the way, and stakes the vamp.
scene direction: spike exhales loudly, and buffy gives him a dirty look.
spike: what? i softened him up.
scene direction: he wipes more blood from his nose, sniffs it, then licks it from his fingers.
buffy: better keep out of my way, spike. i'm not gonna take this much longer.
scene direction: buffy riley walks over to join them.
spike: and i should do what in my spare time? sit at home knitting cunning sweater sets?
buffy: would it keep you out of my way?
riley: she's right. you shouldn't be out here when she's patrolling.
scene direction: buffy turns to riley in exasperation as if she's going to say something, but she doesn't.
spike: oh! i saw that. looks like neither boy's entirely welcome. you should take him home, slayer. make him stay there. i've got knitting needles he can borrow.
scene direction: riley looks annoyed.
buffy: spike ... i just saw you taste your own nose blood, you know what?
scene direction: buffy spike grins at her
buffy: i'm too grossed out to hear anything you have to say. go home.
scene direction: she stalks off. riley gives spike a dirty look, then follows. spike looks injured.
scene direction: spike yelling after them
spike: it's blood! it's what i do!
scene change: cut to buffy walking along, looking tired and annoyed. riley catches up with her.
riley: hey, hope i didn't get in the way.
scene direction: he puts his arm around her. she gives a fake smile.
buffy: of course not. i-i was just ... startled. and, you know i don't ... love the idea of you patrolling alone.
riley: not much for bench-warming.
buffy: no, you made the squad. you ... threw that vampire like he was a ... teeny-weeny little vampire.
scene direction: riley grinning
riley: hey, wanna go again? come on, i bet this place is just teeming with aerodynamic vampires.
scene direction: buffy looks around.
buffy: nah.
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: unless you wanna go back and kill spike for the fun of it?
scene direction: riley raises his eyebrows in a sort of shrug. they both turn and continue on their way.
scene direction: cut back to spike staring after them.
spike: i will know your blood, slayer.
scene direction: spike pause
spike: i will make your neck my chalice ... and drink deep.
scene direction: he wipes blood from his nose again, turns, and tries to stride away purposefully, but he falls into an open grave.
scene direction: long shot of the graveyard looking empty, with the open grave in the foreground.
scene direction: spike voice coming from the grave
spike: ow!
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: fade in on a uc sunnydale building filled with students walking around, talking, studying, etc.
willow: you can't possibly be arguing that marat didn't betray the french revolutionaries.
scene direction: we see willow and buffy walking through the halls.
willow: this was the guy who declared the rights of man, and then the next thing you know he's ... killing girondin like it's going out of style.
buffy: will, you're totally missing my point. now, i agree that marat wasn't a real martyr, but the death in the tub ... the neck wound, all that blood, just a little more fang-y than knife-y. i mean, charlotte corday wasn't a real martyr either, but...
willow: buffy!
scene direction: willow stops walking and grabs buffy's hand.
buffy: what?
scene direction: willow smiling hugely
willow: listen to us! we-we're arguing! we're having a debate about a college lecture! i have dreamt of this day since ... forever!
scene direction: willow proudly
willow: you are turning into quite the student.
scene direction: willow buffy smiles
willow: should i be watching my occipital lobe?
buffy: your what?
willow: occipital.
scene direction: willow pointing to her head
willow: the lobe in the back of your brain. you know, like, "should i be watching my back?" but, you know, the ... back of your brain.
scene direction: willow sighs
buffy: apparently not. don't worry, will, you still wear the smarty-pants in the family.
willow: i don't know. you've been studying ... really a lot.
buffy: i'm trying. but they're really piling on the reading, and giles fills any free time i have with extra training ... i'm starting to think this working hard is hard work.
willow: isn't it crazy like that?
buffy: i thought it was gonna be like in the movies. you know, inspirational music ... a montage, me sharpening my pencils, me reading, writing, falling asleep on a big pile of books with my glasses all crooked, 'cause in my montage i have glasses.
scene direction: buffy willow nods
buffy: but real life is slow, and it's starting to hurt my occipital lobe.
scene direction: willow sympathetic
willow: aw. poor buffy's brain.
scene direction: willow pats buffy on the head
buffy: actually, i'm heading to training now. do you wanna come with?
willow: i'm in.
scene direction: willow they start walking again
willow: maybe we can argue some more about the french revolution. hey! wasn't that robespierre the coolest?
buffy: robespierre? you're kidding me, right?
willow: i'm just gettin' it goin'.
scene change: cut to a shot of a circle saw cutting some wood. we hear giles' voice indistinctly over the saw noise. the camera pulls back and we see it's xander wielding the saw, wearing safety goggles, standing in the middle of the magic shop. giles is behind the counter wearing a dust-mask, painting something.
scene direction: giles muffled by the noise
giles: it seems the plans worked perfectly.
scene direction: xander stops the saw and un-clamps the piece of wood from the vise.
xander: yes, blueprints, not a bad idea. that, and getting straight "measure twice, cut once." you know, for the longest time i had it backwards. mess-y!
scene direction: xander begins fitting the piece of wood into a bookcase(?) that he's working on.
scene direction: giles pulling mask down from his mouth, so it hangs around his neck
giles: well, i must say, i'm very impressed.
xander: yeah, carpentry is pretty cool.
scene direction: knock on the door. giles goes to answer it. as he walks across the shop and the camera follows him, we see tara standing by a small round table, wearing a long skirt, holding a deck of tarot cards. then we see anya moving stuff around on the shelves.
anya: oh! who put the monkey heads near the styx water? do we *want* to pick exploded monkey out of our hair?
scene direction: anya picks up a jar and a monkey head, and walks across the room.
scene direction: giles opens the door. willow and buffy stand there, smiling.
buffy: trick or treat!
giles: hello, you two, come on in.
willow: thank you, kind proprietor.
scene direction: they enter.
tara: hey, you.
willow: hey!
scene direction: willow looking around
willow: oh, wow, this place looks great. oh, i feel like a witch in a magic shop.
scene direction: willow picks up a jar from a table
willow: ooh. are these real newt eyes?
scene direction: willow looks at giles
giles: no, too ... rich for my blood, i'm afraid. no, these are salamander eyes, it's the ... cataracts which give them their newt-like appearance.
scene direction: giles moving past her
giles: they're really equally effective, though, it's ... just a matter of overcoming snobberies.
scene direction: we see buffy putting her purse down, and xander looking at a blueprint, holding a pencil.
xander: i'm telling you giles. you gotta set up a blind taste test and prove once and for all that generic amphibian eyeballs are just as good.
willow: i don't know. if you ask me, the newt name still means something.
scene direction: willow puts down jar and walks off
scene direction: giles to buffy
giles: you ready to train?
buffy: you betcha.
giles: shall we then?
buffy: we shall then.
scene direction: they walk off toward the back.
scene direction: we see willow sitting at the round table, with tara standing beside her. a lot of tarot cards on the table.
tara: i just ... keep thinking how cool it would be, if we got a real psychic to sit up here and read fortunes and stuff.
willow: you should do it.
tara: not me. but, but i'd love to, to watch and learn. from someone who's really good, you know?
willow: you're really good.
scene direction: willow holds out her hands
willow: i'll prove it. here, do me.
scene direction: tara nods and sits, putting down the cards, taking one of willow's hands. willow watches her study it.
tara: hmm.
willow: what do you see?
tara: willow hand.
scene direction: they both smile.
scene change: cut to giles opening the door to the back as buffy and xander watch. giles holds the door for buffy.
scene direction: shot of buffy entering, looking around. someone tackles her from the side, pulling her out of the shot so we see giles and xander behind, looking surprised.
scene direction: buffy falls to the floor on top of riley, who has his arms around her waist.
buffy: unh! ow, riley...
scene direction: they get up.
riley: just keeping you on your toes.
buffy: or off them, as it were. what's gotten into-
scene direction: she stops as she looks around the room and sees it for the first time.
buffy: oh my god. look at this place!
scene direction: long shot of the room. we see a punching bag hanging from the ceiling, a vault horse atop a set of mays, a stationary bike, and a scarecrow/dummy. in the background there's something that looks like a mini-fridge(?). against the far wall there's a set of weights. symbols are painted on the floor and walls.
scene direction: buffy gasps
buffy: thank you.
scene direction: buffy looks up at giles
buffy: thank you ... so much.
scene direction: giles removing his glasses and then the mask that's still around his neck
giles: it's just a start, you need a proper space to train, so-
buffy: i love it.
scene direction: buffy giles gives a small smile
scene direction: riley grinning
riley: so come on, let's test this puppy out. think you can take me?
scene direction: riley throws a few fake punches at buffy. she mostly ignores him, walking farther into the room.
riley: what's the matter, afraid of a little competition?
buffy: it must have been so much work.
xander: i'm the dummy man.
scene direction: xander coming forward
xander: i mean, i ... made the dummy.
scene direction: xander gestures at it
xander: the thing that you hit that doesn't hit back.
scene direction: xander shrugs, looking embarrassed
xander: that, i made.
buffy: it's great.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: i-it's all great.
scene direction: giles putting his glasses back on
giles: well, you've earned it. truly.
buffy: thank you guys so much. you're like my ... fairy godmother and santa claus and q all wrapped up into one.
scene direction: riley looks confused.
buffy: q from bond, not star trek.
scene direction: xander nods.
buffy: i'm gonna go change.
scene change: cut to the graveyard, night. the camera pans jerkily across gravestones and bushes. we hear the sound of someone panting. the camera moves up the stairs leading into a crypt.
scene change: cut to spike sitting in his crypt, watching tv.
spike: oh pacey, you blind idiot. can't you see she doesn't love you?
scene direction: suddenly there's a banging on the door. spike jumps up and turns off the tv. more banging and harmony comes in, looking disheveled and nervous. she shuts the door behind her and presses her back against the wall.
spike: well, well, well. lookie here.
scene direction: harmony anxiously
harmony: is it safe? has buffy gotten to you yet? i saw her patrolling just now ... with a stake!
scene direction: harmony spike pretends to look shocked
harmony: she won't give up until she's killed me to death!
scene direction: spike skeptical
spike: buffy's looking for you.
harmony: of course!
scene direction: harmony walks forward
harmony: that's why i'm on the lam. didn't you hear? i'm totally her arch-nemesis!
spike: is that right. i must have missed the memo.
harmony: there was a mem-?
scene direction: harmony sighs
harmony: spike, oh my god! this is like a real emergency! uhh!
scene direction: harmony spike grins
harmony: i need a hideout so bad. you're my only hope. we're just gonna have to rise above ... our petty differences...
scene direction: harmony looks anxiously at spike
harmony: listen, spike ... i'm desperate.
scene direction: spike still grinning, looking her up and down
spike: desperate, are you?
scene direction: harmony smiles a cajoling smile.
harmony: come on, spike. pretty please? i'll do anything!
spike: anything, will you?
harmony: yeah! i said i'll do anything.
scene direction: spike raises his eyebrows.
harmony: ohhhh. you mean will i have sex with you?
scene direction: harmony shrugs casually, like "duh"
harmony: well, yeah.
scene direction: spike grins to himself as harmony sits in his chair and takes out a cigarette. she begins flicking a lighter, trying to light it. she flicks it quite a few times before she finally figures it out and gets the cigarette lit.
spike: taking up smoking, are you?
scene direction: harmony leans back in the chair.
harmony: i *am* a villain, spike, hellooooo.
scene direction: harmony takes a drag and starts to cough
spike: i guess you are at that. what with the slayer on your tail and all.
scene direction: harmony watches him warily.
spike: she's not the type to give up, either. she'll hunt you down, day and night, till you're too tired and too hungry to run any more. and then?
scene direction: spike leans down to grab a handful of dust
spike: then...
scene direction: spike dusting off his hands
spike: that is you.
scene direction: harmony looks upset.
spike: i guess you're gonna have to kill her.
scene direction: harmony whining
harmony: i tried! it was all hard and stuff!
scene direction: harmony sits up
harmony: you do it.
scene direction: spike looking down at her
spike: i'd love to. but, i can't. remember? i've got this cute little government chip in my head.
scene direction: harmony sighs
harmony: oh, right. guess it'll have to be me after all.
scene direction: harmony looks up at spike again
harmony: can you help with the thinking?
scene direction: spike nods
spike: yeah. i suppose i could do that.
scene direction: harmony smiles and sits back again, putting the cigarette to her lips.
scene change: cut to buffy and riley lying in bed, side-by-side. riley is tapping his hands agitatedly on his chest. buffy gives a contented sigh.
riley: yeah.
buffy: mm, that was relaxing.
scene direction: she turns onto her side as if to sleep. riley continues patting himself, looks over at her.
riley: you, uh ... wanna relax some more?
scene direction: riley turns onto his side and snuggles up against her
buffy: again? right away again?
scene direction: riley is kissing her bare shoulder.
riley: maybe you're too tired.
buffy: hey.
scene direction: buffy reaches behind her to caress his cheek
buffy: i have the endurance of ten men.
riley: let's make it women, okay?
scene direction: riley buffy laughs
riley: just for the imagery.
buffy: whatever. you know, it takes a lot to wear me out.
scene direction: buffy turns toward him
riley: oh, i love a challenge.
buffy: mm.
scene direction: buffy turns back onto her back and riley moves on top of her. they kiss passionately.
dawn voiceover: well, wouldn't you?
scene change: cut to dawn in joyce's kitchen, pouring from a box of sugar bombs cereal. there are a number of bowls on the table in front of her.
dawn: every kid tries to make the substitute cry. it's like a rite of passage.
scene direction: we see joyce in the background, cooking over the stove.
joyce: i certainly would not. being a substitute is an *extremely* difficult job. besides...
scene direction: joyce looks at the bowls
joyce: honestly, dawn, how many bowls of cereal are you planning on eating?
dawn: oh, these aren't for eating. i'm just trying to get the extra out of the way so i could...
scene direction: dawn sticks her hand in cereal box, pulls out a toy
dawn: get this.
scene direction: dawn she smiles cheerfully at joyce and sits down.
dawn: anyway,
scene direction: dawn pointing to joyce
dawn: i want eggs.
joyce: you want the cereal prize, but you don't want the cereal. you *are* growing up. all righty, half an omelette coming up.
scene direction: joyce scooping the eggs onto two plates
dawn: oh, um, with ketchup if you please?
joyce: mm-hmm.
scene direction: joyce turns away from the stove, holding the two plates. suddenly she stops and blinks as if dizzy. dawn looks up from unwrapping the prize.
scene direction: joyce confused
joyce: oh, what is the...
scene direction: joyce looks at dawn
joyce: who are you?
scene direction: dawn looks confused. suddenly joyce collapses to the floor, the plates shattering. dawn jumps up in alarm.
scene direction: shot of joyce lying unconscious on the floor, surrounded by pieces of plates and food.
scene direction: dawn backs away, panting fearfully, and grabs the telephone. she dials 911.
scene change: cut to a hospital emergency room. double doors burst open and buffy pushes in past some people, followed by riley.
scene direction: long shot down the hospital hall. we see dawn sitting on a chair, fiddling with a stethoscope that's hung around her neck. buffy rushes up to her.
buffy: hey. how's mom? are you okay?
scene direction: buffy hugs dawn
dawn: i'm okay.
man: and your mom's doing just fine.
scene direction: a young man in a white coat approaches. buffy lets go of dawn and stands up.
scene direction: dawn still sitting
dawn: this is ben. he gave me his stethoscope.
ben: *lent* you his stethoscope. buffy, right?
scene direction: ben holds out hand
ben: i'm ben, i'm an intern here. i've had the pleasure of hanging out with the renowned dr. dawn here while your mom's being tested.
scene direction: ben buffy shakes his hand
riley: so what's goin' on? what happened?
ben: well, she's doing okay now ... the doctors don't really know what caused the collapse...
scene direction: we see dawn putting the stethoscope earpieces in her ears and tapping the end with her fingers. the voices fade out; we can still hear them, but they're muffled as they would sound to dawn with the stethoscope in her ears.
scene direction: ben muffled
ben: .. it could've just been a dizzy spell, low blood sugar, that sort of thing.
buffy: but it's nothing bad. i, i mean it's not ... serious, right?
scene direction: ben muffled
ben: very unlikely. so your mom doesn't have a ... history of fainting?
scene direction: we see dawn putting the stethoscope to ben's chest. we hear a normal heartbeat.
scene direction: buffy muffled
buffy: no. i mean, not that i know of. she's usually really healthy.
scene direction: ben muffled
ben: well, i think they'll be running tests for a few more hours...
scene direction: we see dawn putting the stethoscope to buffy's chest. we hear a normal heartbeat.
scene direction: ben muffled
ben: ...then they'll probably want her to come back for some follow-up tests in a couple weeks, but it really doesn't look like anything too serious.
buffy: oh, thank god. i was freaking out.
scene direction: we see dawn getting up and walking around them.
scene direction: ben muffled
ben: i think you'll be able to take her home before too long.
scene direction: riley muffled
riley: well, that is definitely good news.
scene direction: we see dawn putting the stethoscope to riley's chest. we hear a heartbeat that is much too fast and irregular. dawn's eyes widen and she looks up at riley's face.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: fade in on a hospital exam room. riley sits on the exam table buttoning up his shirt.
doctor: i know i'm repeating myself here, but i don't know what else to say to convince you.
scene direction: we see buffy watching as a female doctor talks to riley. the doctor is writing on her clipboard.
doctor: i have never in all my years of medicine let a patient with tachycardia this severe leave a hospital.
riley: you said you couldn't keep me.
doctor: legally, no, i can't force you to do a thing.
scene direction: doctor riley nods and resumes buttoning his shirt
doctor: but with that pulse, believe me, i'd get on my knees and beg you if i thought i could change your mind.
riley: you can't. i'm going home.
doctor: and your friend here can't convince you to-
scene direction: riley holds up a hand to stop her.
riley: i'm going.
scene direction: buffy looks very concerned.
doctor: all right then, but you're leaving against my recommendation.
scene direction: the doctor leaves. riley looks at buffy, then stands up.
buffy: what's going on? what are you doing? what if you have a heart attack?
scene direction: riley puts hands on her shoulders
riley: listen to me. calm down.
buffy: *me* calm down? i'm not the one with a pulse of a hundred and fifty.
riley: my heart's different than yours, buffy. it works differently now, but it's okay.
buffy: but you're still a human, riley. you could still have a heart attack.
riley: i'm a human who was used as a lab rat for months.
scene direction: they look up as the door opens. joyce and dawn enter.
joyce: hi.
buffy: hey. how are you?
scene direction: buffy hurries over to hug joyce
joyce: oh ... embarrassed, mostly. i'm sorry to put you through this. but, no more tests, so you can take this pincushion home.
riley: yes.
scene direction: riley comes forward
riley: let's, uh, get outta here.
scene direction: he holds the door for joyce and dawn. buffy gives him a concerned look, then exits also. riley follows.
scene change: cut to joyce's living room. joyce is lying on the sofa, sipping from a mug, with buffy and dawn sitting by her. willow stands beside the sofa.
willow: what about a crossword? some people say feed a cold, i say puzzle it.
joyce: oh, no thanks, willow.
dawn: i like chicken fingers with mustard when i'm sick.
scene direction: joyce puts mug on coffee table
joyce: i know you do, sweetie. i can make us some later.
buffy: oh, uh-uh. you are sitting right here on this couch today.
joyce: i feel silly lying here like a lump!
willow: you could make a game out of it. a-a very quiet game, about being a lump.
joyce: i feel fine. honestly, i'm more concerned about riley than i am about me.
buffy: you shouldn't even be thinking about that. he's not worried, so i don't think we should be.
scene change: cut to buffy's room. buffy is pacing. willow lies on the bed while dawn sits on the floor, leaning against the bed.
buffy: i don't get what he's thinking.
scene direction: buffy steps over dawn as she paces around the bed
buffy: why isn't he worried?
willow: maybe he thinks his body can handle it. he *is* in really good shape.
buffy: nobody's body can handle a heart attack.
scene direction: buffy steps over dawn to pace the other way again
willow: i know. i'm sorry, buffy. i'm trying too hard to make it okay.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i just keep coming back to the initiative.
scene direction: dawn watches her pace back and forth.
willow: it does have that icky government feel to it.
dawn: did you know that one time the cia tried to kill fidel castro with poisonous aspirin?
buffy: dawn, please.
scene direction: dawn looks annoyed. buffy sits on a chair.
buffy: i know i have to do something, i just don't know what.
dawn: another time the cia-
buffy: dawn!
dawn: it's important.
scene direction: buffy looks annoyed but nods.
scene direction: dawn quickly
dawn: tried to make castro go crazy by putting itching powder in his beard.
scene direction: dawn buffy raises her eyebrows accusingly
dawn: it's about the government!
willow: call the initiative. if they know what's wrong with him, they have to help.
buffy: yeah, but call them how? first of all, they don't exist any more, and secondly, they never *claimed* to exist in the first place.
scene direction: willow looks defeated.
scene direction: buffy getting up
buffy: it's so unfair. i mean, i-it's like big brother can spy on you all the time, and-and the second i have something to say, no one will listen!
scene direction: dawn muttering
dawn: sounds more like big sister.
willow: there has to be a way.
buffy: like what? take a tour of the white house and pretend to get lost, and look for some door with a sign on it that says "secret government monster hunters"?
dawn: if they're really spying on you all the time, you just say something so you know they'll hear you.
scene direction: dawn buffy looks thoughtful
dawn: like sometimes, i write fake things in my diary in case...
scene direction: dawn trails off
buffy: i gotta go. uh, see you guys later.
scene direction: she grabs her bag and leaves. dawn looks over at willow.
dawn: what'd i say?
scene change: cut to buffy entering riley's room. we see a punching bag in the foreground. it's dark.
buffy: riley?
scene direction: no one's there. buffy walks in, closing the door behind her. she picks up the phone and puts it to her ear. we hear a dial tone, alternating with clicking noises.
scene direction: buffy into phone
buffy: riley's in trouble. he needs help.
scene direction: she hangs up.
scene change: fast music starts. cut to riley playing basketball with a bunch of other guys. they're all yelling. the camera moves very fast, as do the men, giving it all a dizzy frantic feeling. riley is clearly playing very well. the other men shake their heads as the game ends.
guy: no way, man.
riley: i'm out.
scene direction: he throws the ball to one of them. he's very sweaty. he turns and walks off.
scene direction: riley walks past a bench where a guy is sitting. he glances at the guy, then away.
riley: graham.
scene direction: riley keeps walking
graham: riley.
scene direction: graham we see graham sitting on the bench, talking over his shoulder
graham: can we talk?
scene direction: riley bends over a water fountain and drinks. graham gets up, gestures to two men standing nearby in button-down shirts.
graham: agent goodman, agent brown.
scene direction: riley walks toward graham.
riley: so talk.
graham: what's goin' on, man?
scene direction: graham riley shrugs
graham: you gotta get this taken care of immediately. we gotta get you into an operating room.
riley: very convincing. makes me completely wanna put myself under government control.
scene direction: graham stares riley down with the two other agents behind him. riley puts out his hands, in fists, with the wrists together, as if inviting handcuffs.
riley: please take me where they can make me unconscious and naked.
graham: hey, you think i'd pull something on you?
riley: you're still in. i'm out. i don't know what orders you're following.
graham: oh, come on. you know walsh pumped all those chemicals and crap into us. you got more than anyone. she messed us up bad.
scene direction: riley scornful
riley: and now the government's knocking themselves out to kiss it and make it better.
graham: riley, i'm tellin' you, you need help. i'm not saying it to trick you.
scene direction: riley shakes head
riley: maybe you even believe it.
graham: i know it. you don't want this.
riley: you're sure you got the fix for it?
graham: yeah. we got a guy, a doctor. he's gonna take care of you, and we're going to him now.
scene direction: graham riley nods
graham: i'm not givin' you a choice.
riley: i guess you're not.
scene direction: suddenly he punches graham in the face. the other two agents grab both riley's arms but he throws one of them off, knees the other one in the stomach and punches him. he blocks a kick from the first one, punches him, clotheslines him, throws the other one to the ground and runs off.
scene change: cut to interior of uc sunnydale building. we see buffy talking to graham amid a crowd of students. graham's face is bruised.
buffy: so you messed up and now he's gone and when are you even gonna tell me what's wrong with him?
graham: i'm not permitted to say.
buffy: say.
scene direction: graham sighs
graham: hyperadrenal overload and a bunch of stuff that sounds even worse than that, and all it means is he's way stronger than he oughta be and feeling no pain. his heart can't take it. we've been at him for weeks about it.
scene direction: buffy sighs.
graham: there's a specialist waiting at sunnydale general, fourth floor neurology. get riley there. if you don't-
buffy: i'll get him there.
scene direction: graham nods
graham: i'll tell the doc.
scene direction: buffy turns to walk off. graham watches her go.
graham: buffy.
scene direction: she turns back.
buffy: if you tell me to hurry ... i'll kick your ass.
scene direction: she walks off as graham watches.
scene change: cut to shot of sunnydale, evening.
scene change: fade to riley walking through woods, approaching the entrance to a cave and entering it.
scene change: cut to interior of the magic shop. we see willow and tara sitting at the round table with giles standing in the background.
willow: poor riley.
giles: could he have simply gone back to his apartment?
scene direction: giles walks toward them and we see buffy standing beside the table. xander and anya are sitting across from willow and tara.
buffy: no, he's not at his apartment, he's not at the gym, he's not at the library ... he's gone somewhere where he doesn't wanna be found.
anya: so basically he's gone awol.
buffy: basically exactly.
willow: poor buffy.
xander: maybe he just needs some time alone. like, i had this friend once, who really liked this girl, and ... he got all worried that maybe she didn't like him back...
scene direction: xander buffy and giles look confused
xander: and maybe that made him act like a total jerk. maybe riley reminds me of that friend.
scene direction: anya smiles.
willow: what are you talking about?
xander: then again, maybe not. maybe he just wants attention.
buffy: well, here's a hot tip, if you want attention? *be* there so people can give it to you.
scene direction: anya softly
anya: i care about you, xander.
scene direction: xander smiles confusedly
xander: thanks.
scene direction: anya smiles
anya: don't be insecure.
scene direction: xander shrugs, shakes his head
xander: thanks ... i won't.
anya: and, i also have this "friend"
scene direction: anya making air-quotes
anya: and, uh, i have it on really good authority that she really likes that guy, your "friend"
scene direction: anya air-quotes
anya: ... and, by the by, my friend-
buffy: you guys, enough!
scene direction: buffy anya and xander look embarrassed
buffy: okay, riley is in real danger here.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: anya, xander, why don't you guys check the docks.
scene direction: anya and xander nod.
xander: aye aye.
scene direction: they get up and leave.
willow: tara and i can scope out the burned-out school. riley hid there once. maybe he ... feels it's homey or something.
scene direction: buffy thoughtful
buffy: homey. you know what else he might find homey in a ... dank, unpleasant evil sort of way?
scene direction: buffy giles sits in xander's vacated seat
buffy: the initiative caves. i don't know them too well.
scene direction: giles sipping tea
giles: we do have an associate who knows those caves like the back of his ... melanin-deprived hand.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i *so* don't want to deal with spike right now. that guy is really starting to bug me in that special "i wanna shove something wooden through his heart" kinda way.
willow: he does seem extra twitchy lately. maybe the whole not killing is gettin' to him.
buffy: plus hanging out all day in that moldy crypt, you just *know* he's doing something nasty.
scene change: cut to spike sitting with harmony in the crypt.
spike: okay, is it bigger than a breadbox?
scene direction: harmony smiling
harmony: no. four left.
spike: so it's smaller than a breadbox.
scene direction: harmony giggling
harmony: no! only three!
scene direction: spike quietly annoyed
spike: harmony ... is it a sodding breadbox?
scene direction: harmony clapping and laughing
harmony: yes! oh my god! someone's blondie bear is a twenty-question genius!
scene direction: banging on the door. harmony stops laughing and looks scared.
harmony: she's found me!
scene direction: she jumps up and runs over to a coffin, climbs into it. spike follows and slides the lid onto the coffin, then sits on top of it trying to look casual.
scene direction: buffy busts the door open and strides in.
buffy: i've got a proposition for you.
scene direction: spike jumping off the coffin
spike: funny, i've got a proposition for you, what about knocking?
scene direction: spike buffy ignores him, pulling out a wad of cash and unfolding it
spike: seems only fair since we vamps can't enter your flat without an invite, you could at least - say, look at those pretty pieces of paper.
buffy: riley's sick with some initiative thing and he's missing. i think he might be in the caves. you find him, bring him to the fourth floor of the hospital, their doctors get to him in time...
scene direction: buffy holds up the money
buffy: you get the cash.
spike: oh, dear, is the enormous hall monitor sick? tell me, is he gonna die?
scene direction: buffy slaps him across the face.
buffy: he is not the only person that can die.
spike: hey. i'm just saying, if it's really that important to you, i think i'll get half now.
scene direction: buffy looks at the money in her hand. she rips the bills in half, slams one half against spike's chest, and strides out.
scene direction: spike watches her go, then looks down at the half-bills in his hand.
scene direction: harmony pushes the coffin lid aside and peeks out.
harmony: so? what'd she say about me?
scene change: cut to hospital corridor. the double-doors open and graham walks through, walks down the hallway, past a security guard who nods at him. graham goes through another set of double-doors and enters a lab. the doctor (dr. overheiser) is there.
overheiser: any word?
graham: they'll be here any minute.
scene direction: overheiser looks at a folder in his hand.
graham: that's soon enough, right? i mean, if we bring him in now?
overheiser: i'll be honest. i'm not sure it's soon enough if you brought him in yesterday.
scene direction: knock on the door. graham turns.
graham: finally.
scene direction: he opens the door to see the security guard apparently standing there. then the guard falls forward, his head hitting graham's. graham falls back and the guard falls on top of him as we see harmony walking in behind the dead guard. overheiser looks up in alarm. spike follows harmony in, carrying a crossbow. he tosses it to harmony, who catches it and points it at the doctor, letting the tip of the arrow touch his cheek.
spike: you got yourself a new patient, doc.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: fade in on buffy walking in the woods, holding a flashlight. it's dark. she finds the cave entrance that riley used earlier, and walks in.
scene direction: exterior shot of a college building.
scene change: cut to interior of a room with several tiers of chairs. the door opens and spike enters, followed by overheiser and then harmony with the crossbow.
overheiser: look, you don't understand. this is a complicated neurological procedure and i've never performed it before.
scene direction: they walk down the steps, past rows of seats, into a surgical theatre.
spike: little performance anxiety, eh doc?
scene direction: spike takes off his jacket, sits on the operating table
spike: butterflies in the old belly? harm, do us a favor. shoot the nasty butterflies for the good doctor.
scene direction: spike overheiser looks from harmony to spike and moves toward the operating table
spike: there you go. it's not so complicated. just do whatever those initiative lab monkeys did, only backwards.
scene direction: harmony sits on a nearby counter.
overheiser: this is a medical school, not a proper operating facility, these instruments...
scene direction: overheiser gesturing at the tray of instruments
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: they look pointy enough. they'll do.
scene direction: he lies back on the table with his hands behind his head.
overheiser: you're not listening. that chip is deeply imbedded in your cerebral cortex. removing it could leave you a vegetable.
spike: that's not gonna happen, mate. see, i have faith in your survival instinct.
scene direction: he looks significantly over at harmony. overheiser looks too. harmony smiles and lifts the crossbow.
scene direction: spike smiling
spike: yeah. you'll have me up and killing before the night's over.
scene direction: spike note: although it sounds like "killing," and the closed-captions say "killing," his lips clearly say "fighting."
scene direction: overheiser looks apprehensive. spike continues to grin.
spike: come on, doc!
scene direction: spike nudges the doctor with his foot
spike: you'll do me right. nothing bad'll happen to you.
scene direction: suddenly an arrow flies across the room, narrowly missing the doctor, and lodging in the wall opposite. spike and overheiser look at it, startled, then look over at harmony.
harmony: oops.
scene direction: harmony grinning apologetically
harmony: string was slippy.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the burned-out old sunnydale high school building.
scene direction: willow voiceover calling
willow voiceover: riley!
scene change: cut to inside. willow and tara walking through the rubble.
tara: this place kinda creeps me out.
willow: you shoulda been here when it was a school.
scene direction: willow calls
willow: riley!
scene direction: they walk on, very slowly, looking nervous.
willow: oof. darkness.
tara: piles of it. we shoulda brought a flashlight.
willow: ooh! i know!
scene direction: willow reaches into her bag
willow: better to light a candle than curse the damn darkness.
scene direction: willow smiles. pulls a small bottle out of her bag
willow: a little spell.
scene direction: willow shows it to tara
willow: fiat lux!
scene direction: willow latin, translation: "let there be light"
scene direction: willow throws the bottle at the ground. there's a big burst of flame and then the entire area is lit with a soft diffuse light.
tara: wow.
willow: there, that's better.
scene direction: tara stares at her in amazement.
scene direction: willow calling
willow: riley! come on out!
scene direction: she begins to walk again. tara follows, still staring.
tara: how'd you do that? with the light?
willow: oh, you know. you taught me.
tara: i taught you teeny tinkerbell light.
willow: okay, so i ... tinkered with the tinkerbell. it was easy. and besides, isn't this better than ... using a flashlight like some kind of doofus?
scene change: cut to buffy with a flashlight, walking through the caves, calling.
buffy: riley? riley, answer me.
scene direction: buffy mutters softly
buffy: please.
scene direction: she walks on. pan across the rocks, with vines growing on them. we hear a repetitive knocking noise.
buffy: riley?
scene direction: she rounds a corner and finds riley punching the rock wall. there's a large cavity in the wall where he's clearly been punching for some time. he's shiny with sweat and looks tired.
scene direction: riley not looking at buffy
riley: you know, this doesn't even hurt.
buffy: your hand is bleeding.
scene direction: riley looks at her
riley: don't feel a thing.
scene direction: he moves to punch the wall again but buffy stops him.
buffy: this stops now. i'm taking you to the doctor.
riley: the one from the government, you mean? like the ones who did this to me in the first place?
scene direction: riley puts up a hand in a "no thanks" gesture and backs away
scene direction: buffy moving toward him
buffy: he's the only one that understands what's wrong with you. he's the only one that can help.
riley: what's wrong with me? i'm more powerful than i've ever been, buffy. most people would kill to feel this way.
buffy: yeah, and this feeling is *going* to kill you. riley, your body was not built for this kind of strength-
riley: i can handle it. this is my deal, buffy, just ... back off.
scene direction: he walks past her. she turns to watch him.
buffy: what is this?
scene direction: he stops walking, turns back to her.
buffy: what's happening to you?
riley: i go back ... let the government get whimsical with my innards again ... they could do anything that- best-case scenario, they turn me into joe normal, just...
scene direction: riley sighs
riley: just another guy.
buffy: and that's not enough for you?
riley: it's not enough for *you*.
buffy: why would you say that?
riley: come on. your last boyfriend wasn't exactly a civilian.
buffy: so that's what this is about? you're going to die, all over some macho pissing contest.
scene direction: riley shakes his head
riley: it's not about him. it's about us.
scene direction: riley buffy shakes her head, not understanding
riley: you're getting stronger every day, more powerful. i can't touch you. every day, you're just ... a little further out of my reach.
buffy: you wanna touch me?
scene direction: buffy walks toward him
buffy: i'm right here. i'm not the one running away.
riley: not yet.
buffy: so you have this all figured out? i'm bailing because you're not in the super club.
scene direction: riley shrugs
riley: it's human nature.
scene direction: buffy angrily
buffy: don't psych 101 me.
scene direction: buffy riley looks away
buffy: not now. not after everything that ... nobody has ever known me the way you do. nobody.
scene direction: buffy riley doesn't look at her
buffy: i've opened up to you in ways that i've never opened up to ... god, you're just sitting back there thinking that none of this means anything to me.
scene direction: riley still not looking at her
riley: i never said that.
scene direction: buffy teary-eyed
buffy: because it obviously doesn't mean anything to you. do you really think so little of me-
riley: buffy.
buffy: no! no. do you think that i spent the last year with you because you had super powers? if that's what i wanted, then i'd be dating spike.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: riley, i need you.
scene direction: buffy he looks at her, looks apprehensive
buffy: i need you with me ... and i need you healthy. but if you wanna throw it all away because you don't trust me, then ...
scene direction: buffy firmly
buffy: then i'm still gonna make you go to that doctor.
scene direction: riley looks at her, looks away. he sighs.
riley: take me to him.
scene direction: buffy nods.
buffy: we have to hurry.
scene direction: she strides past him, but he grabs her arm and turns her to face him.
riley: loving you is the scariest thing i've ever done, buffy.
buffy: i don't know why.
scene direction: she puts her hand over his heart.
buffy: the doctor said we didn't have much time.
scene direction: they walk off.
scene change: cut to spike on the operating table. a sheet lies vertically over the top of his head, and his eyes are closed. as the camera pulls back we see the doctor wearing rubber gloves, working on spike's head. harmony comes into view, walking behind overheiser.
harmony: i read in a magazine that some women think a man's real sex organ is his brain.
scene direction: she leans next to the doctor and looks at where his hands are.
harmony: yuck! no contest. i mean, look at it. it's so ... pink and wriggly-looking.
scene direction: harmony grins suddenly; to the doctor
harmony: can i touch it?
scene direction: spike's eyes pop open.
scene direction: spike and overheiser in unison
spike and overheiser: no!
scene direction: harmony looking over at spike's face
harmony: oh my god, you're awake?
overheiser: local anesthetic.
harmony: wow, spikey, how does it feel?
spike: like someone's cutting into my brain with a knife, you silly bint.
scene direction: harmony looks back at spike's brain.
scene direction: harmony to doctor
harmony: you know what it means that he can't hurt any living thing? it means he can't even pick flowers.
spike: what? yes i can!
scene direction: overheiser softly
overheiser: please be quiet.
scene direction: everyone is quiet for a moment. then harmony points at spike's brain again.
harmony: is it supposed to do that?
overheiser: please. for god's sake, please, be quiet.
harmony: listen, buster. i don't see a crossbow in *your* hands, okay?
spike: harmony, if your incessant prattling bolloxes up this operation, i'm gonna personally yank out your pink and wriggly tongue.
scene direction: overheiser looks at harmony.
harmony: what are you looking at?
scene change: cut to the hospital room. riley and buffy come through the double-doors and find the security guard and graham on the floor.
buffy: uh-oh.
scene direction: buffy bends over the guard while riley goes to graham.
riley: graham. graham.
scene direction: riley helps him sit up. riley holds up two fingers
riley: how many fingers i got?
graham: seventeen.
scene direction: riley and buffy exchange a concerned look.
graham: hostile 17 and a blonde girl.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: spike and harmony, together again.
scene direction: riley helps graham stand up. they look around.
giles: where's dr. overheiser?
buffy: uh, spike must have taken him. what would spike want with -
scene direction: buffy the clue hits
buffy: the chip. he's gonna force the doctor to remove the chip from his brain.
scene direction: riley bends over and puts his hands on his knees, panting. he's pale and sweaty.
buffy: riley?
scene direction: riley straightens up, breathlessly
riley: i'm okay. okay.
scene direction: graham to buffy
graham: we're running out of time. we don't find the medic soon, he's not gonna make it.
scene direction: buffy thinking fast
buffy: okay, okay, brain surgery. he, he's gonna need a medical facility, he-he's gonna need, uh, uh, equipment...
graham: this is a big hospital.
buffy: no, uh-uh, he wouldn't do it here. it's too risky. we'll split up. graham, get on the horn, or the ... pipe, or whatever you guys get on, i-i want you to check animal hospitals, doctors' offices...
scene direction: graham walks to the door. riley stops him.
riley: hey, about before...
graham: we're good. apologize later, if you're not dead.
scene direction: he leaves. riley looks nervously at buffy. she walks toward him.
scene direction: buffy firmly
buffy: you are *not* going to die.
riley: bet you say that to all the boys.
buffy: no. there is one peroxided pest whose number is up.
scene direction: buffy they start to walk off
buffy: when i get my hands on spike, i'm gonna rip his head off, i'm gonna...
scene change: cut to closeup of spike's face. he's still on the operating table.
spike: ...bathe in the slayer's blood. gonna dive in it.
scene direction: spike with relish
spike: swim in it.
scene direction: shot of overheiser and harmony behind the sheet, staring at spike's brain. harmony is smoking another cigarette.
spike: i'm gonna do the bloody backstroke.
scene direction: harmony blows out smoke, which drifts toward spike's face. she begins to jump up and down.
harmony: i see it, spikey! i see the chip! it's nestled in there like ... a pretty little easter egg with your brain all around it like that green plastic grassy stuff ... only this is more a beige, like-
overheiser: would you please put out that cigarette? it's really not allowed.
harmony: oh yeah? says who?
scene direction: the doctor turns to look pointedly at the no smoking sign on the wall.
harmony: oh god, sorry! didn't see the sign!
scene direction: she turns away to put out the cigarette. the doctor turns and drops something into a dish. it makes a metallic clinking noise.
overheiser: the chip's out.
scene direction: overheiser harmony squeals excitedly
overheiser: didn't think i could do it, i just ... it's out.
spike: yeah?
scene direction: harmony jumping up and down, clapping
harmony: yay! yay for spikey!
spike: right then.
scene direction: spike determinedly
spike: stitch me up, doc. got places to go. and slayers to kill.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: fade in on harmony holding the crossbow. pan across to spike, sitting up while the doctor puts a few last stitches in his head.
spike: listen to me. my stomach's growling, i'm so starved.
scene direction: spike the doc looks nervous, begins to apply a bandage
spike: i'm afraid i'm gonna have to have me a little snack.
scene direction: overheiser looks very nervous. spike turns his head to speak over his shoulder.
spike: oh, don't worry. i won't fill up on the bread. i'll still have plenty of room for the main course.
scene direction: the door opens and buffy walks in, followed by riley.
scene direction: spike fiercely
spike: slayer!
scene direction: he jumps off the table. harmony moves to stand beside him, holding the crossbow. buffy and riley stand side-by-side. face off. the doctor tries to sidle around toward the door.
scene direction: spike morphs into vampire face.
spike: suit up, harm.
scene direction: harmony morphs into vampire face.
scene direction: buffy turns to stop the doc as he tries to leave.
buffy: stay here.
scene direction: buffy she pushes him so he falls to the floor
buffy: we're gonna need you.
spike: buffy. i swear i was just thinking of you. i wanted to tell you the great news. my head's all clear now. no more bug-zapper in my noggin.
buffy: that means i get to kill you.
spike: you get to try.
scene direction: the standoff continues. suddenly the crossbow goes off and the arrow flies, landing in riley's leg. buffy looks over at him. riley doesn't seem to react.
harmony: oops.
scene direction: riley storms toward her. she moves toward him. he brushes the crossbow out of her hands.
scene direction: buffy punches spike in the face.
scene direction: riley throws harmony down on the operating table, picks her up and throws her against a wall full of equipment.
scene direction: buffy punches spike in the face a few more times; he stumbles back against the operating table.
scene direction: riley punches harmony, throws her across the room, leans against a counter panting. he turns as harmony shoves a wheeled chair toward him. he trips over it and goes down. harmony kicks him in the face.
scene direction: spike jumps up onto the operating table and grins down at buffy. in the background we can still see and hear riley and harmony exchanging blows.
spike: at long last.
scene direction: he leaps on top of buffy, carrying her to the ground and landing on top of her. he pins her hands down and bends to bite her neck. buffy struggles.
scene direction: spike gives a yell of pain and jerks backward. buffy punches him, then shoves him off her so he lands next to the doctor. spike looks angrily at overheiser, who looks scared.
scene direction: riley punches harmony in the face; she kicks him away. he starts toward her again but stops, grabbing his chest and groaning in pain.
buffy: riley!
scene direction: riley stumbles against a metal table and falls down with it on top of him. harmony looks at her fist, then runs off.
scene direction: buffy crawls over to riley and puts her hands on his chest.
buffy: riley.
scene direction: spike gets up and opens the container where the doctor supposedly put his chip. he takes out a penny from inside it.
scene direction: spike looking at doctor
spike: a penny?
scene direction: overheiser getting up
overheiser: i told you i couldn't do it.
buffy: oh god. doctor! doctor, we need you *now*!
scene direction: the doctor rushes to lift the table off of riley as spike and harmony move to the door. spike grabs his jacket and pauses to look back, then turns and leaves.
scene direction: buffy and the doctor lift riley up to a sitting position.
scene change: cut to exterior graveyard, night. spike and harmony run between the trees and gravestones.
spike: buffy, buffy, buffy! everywhere i turn, she's there! that nasty little face, that ... bouncing shampoo-commercial hair, that whole sodding holier-than-thou attitude.
harmony: well, aren't we kinda unholy, by the-
spike: she follows me, you know, tracks me down. i'm her pet project. drive spike round the bend. makes every day a fresh bout of torture.
scene direction: he stops running, picks up a headstone and throws it against another. harmony cringes as the dust showers her.
harmony: spike!
spike: you don't understand. i can't get rid of her. she's everywhere. she's haunting me, harmony!
scene direction: he grabs her upper arms. she looks very scared. spike stares at her, slowly calms down.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: this ... has got to end.
scene change: cut to riley lying on the operating table, with the doctor putting a bandage on his chest. buffy walks in.
overheiser: all patched up.
scene direction: overheiser exits and riley sits up. we see that in addition to being shirtless, he's also only wearing half a pair of jeans -- the other pant-leg was cut away to help get the arrow out of his leg. another bandage is wrapped around his thigh. he picks up his shirt and begins to put it on. buffy puts one hand on riley's good leg and lightly touches the bandage on his chest with her other hand.
buffy: how's it goin' in there?
riley: good. back to normal.
scene direction: buffy leans her head against his chest to listen to his heartbeat.
buffy: yep.
scene direction: he strokes her hair. she leans back and takes his bruised hand in hers, pulling his hand to her heart.
buffy: and see ... i'm still touchable.
scene direction: riley nods
riley: give me a week or so to heal, and ... i'll take full advantage of that fact.
scene direction: buffy smiles, still holding his hand.
buffy: are you gonna be okay? 'cause i should really go check on my mom.
scene direction: riley looks up at her.
riley: yeah. yeah, go ahead. i'll be fine.
buffy: i'll talk to you later.
scene direction: he nods. she leans up and kisses him softly, then turns away.
scene direction: shot of riley's hands as buffy pulls her out of his grasp and leaves.
scene direction: shot of riley watching her go, looking pensive.
scene change: cut to riley and graham walking down the hall in a dorm or frat building. riley has a noticeable limp. graham's face is still bruised.
graham: it's a good thing buffy found you when she did, 'cause you were about to detonate big-time. always said she's pretty impressive.
riley: you know, she really is.
graham: but you know you don't belong here, right?
scene direction: graham keeps walking and talking although riley has stopped walking and is staring at his back
graham: this town? i mean, you're nothin' here.
riley: hey.
scene direction: riley graham stops walking, turns to look at him
riley: what are you saying?
graham: come on, man. you know it's true. there's nothing for you here.
riley: there's her.
graham: okay, right, there's her. and? you used to have a mission, and now you're what? the mission's boyfriend? mission's true love?
scene direction: riley looks at the floor, then walks on, past graham.
graham: you belong with us.
scene direction: riley doesn't reply, keeps walking. graham watches him go.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. spike is sleeping in his chair. banging noises. spike opens his eyes and gets up as the door flies open and buffy walks in.
spike: should have known it's you. been nearly six hours.
buffy: well, it would've been less if i wasn't busy cleaning up your mess.
spike: *my* mess? i just *borrowed* the doc. the mess is yours, slayer. yours and the boy's.
buffy: i'm done.
scene direction: she takes a stake from her back pocket and walks toward spike. he looks surprised.
buffy: spike, you're a killer. and i shoulda done this *years* ago.
scene direction: spike looks her in the eye.
spike: you know what? do it. bloody just do it.
buffy: what?
spike: end ... my ... torment. seeing you, every day, everywhere i go, every time i turn around. take me ... out of a world ... that has you in it!
scene direction: spike yanks off his shirt and throws it aside
spike: just kill me!
scene direction: buffy stares at him, then raises her stake and lunges. spike winces, but she stops at the last minute. they stare into each other's eyes.
scene direction: suddenly spike grabs buffy by the upper arms and kisses her passionately. she returns the kiss. it goes on for a moment and then buffy pulls back with a little noise of dismay, bringing her hand to her mouth. she stares at spike and he stares back, both panting. the stake is gone from her hand.
scene direction: slowly buffy drops her hand from her mouth and walks back to spike, putting both her hands to the back of his head and pulling him down toward her. they kiss again, very passionate. spike brings his hands up to clutch her back, kissing her cheek and the side of her neck.
scene direction: buffy panting
buffy: spike ... i want you.
scene direction: spike muffled against her neck
spike: buffy, i love you.
scene direction: he pulls back. closeup of buffy staring at him.
scene direction: spike os
spike: god, i love you so much.
scene change: cut to spike sitting up in bed with a gasp.
scene direction: shot of harmony sleeping in the bed next to him.
scene direction: shot of spike sitting up in the bed, looking horrified, while harmony continues to sleep.
spike: oh, god, no.
scene direction: closeup of spike's face.
spike: please, no.
scene direction: blackout. the sound of spike panting continues as the producer credit appears.
