scene change: *** episode begins ***
scene direction: buffy sitting in the magic shop.
buffy: look, i know mom wants to gather and make with the merry tomorrow night, but with everything that's going on...
scene direction: willow walks up behind buffy.
willow: this is exactly what you need.
scene direction: willow sits next to buffy. we see tara sitting on willow's other side
willow: a 20th birthday party with, with, with presents, and funny hats, and, and those candles that don't blow out...
scene direction: willow whispers to tara
willow: those used to scare me.
tara: me too.
buffy: i just don't think this is the best time to break out the party pinata. we need to stay focused if we're gonna find a way to stop glory.
scene direction: we see xander and anya sitting on buffy's other side.
xander: we're going up against a god. an actual mightier-than-thou god.
willow: well, you know what they say, the bigger they are-
anya: the faster they stomp you into nothing.
scene direction: everyone looks at her. we see giles sitting between buffy and xander, looking through books and papers.
buffy: she's right. i've thrown everything i've got at her and she just shrugs it off.
willow: then we have to find something heavier to throw.
giles: that might pose some difficulty. from what the council's been able to discover from the book of tarnis and, and, and other sources, glory and two of her fellow hellgods ruled over ... one of the more seriously unpleasant demon dimensions.
tara: there's more than one?
anya: oh, there are thousands of demon dimensions. all different.
giles: all pushing on the edges of our reality, trying to find a way in.
buffy: i guess glory found one. the question is, why?
giles: there's nothing to indicate that here. just ... vague references to ... chaos and destruction.
scene direction: giles sound of teakettle whistling. giles gets up to get it.
buffy: okay, so, we know where glory's from. what do we know about her? you know, she's tough, yeah, but, but no bolts of lightning, no blasts of fire, shouldn't a god be able to do that kind of stuff?
scene direction: giles pouring tea
giles: uh, usually, yes, but um, being in human form must be severely limiting her powers. all we have to worry about right now is she's immortal, invulnerable, and insane.
xander: a *crazy* hellgod? and the fun just keeps on leaving.
giles: from what i've been able to gather, her living in this world is ... seriously affecting her mental state as well. she's only being able to keep her mind intact by, uh, extracting energy from us. well, from, from the human brain.
tara: she, she, she's a brain-sucker?
scene direction: tara willow and tara exchange a look
giles: she, um ...
scene direction: giles leans over to read from book
giles: 'absorbs the energies that bind the human mind into a cohesive whole.' once drained, all that's left behind is, uh-
buffy: crazy people.
scene direction: giles pouring more tea
giles: which is, i'm afraid, why there's been a marked increase in the ranks of the mentally unstable here in sunnydale.
tara: at least vampires just kill you.
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: we have to find a way to stop her.
willow: oh, well, tara and i can work on some tactical spells.
scene direction: willow giles hands buffy a cup of tea
anya: i can do some research. i know *way* more about demon dimensions than giles does.
scene direction: anya giles frowns
anya: well, i do.
xander: this is great long-term plan-y stuff, but what about this ... key thingy glory's looking for?
scene direction: buffy and giles both standing, sipping tea, exchanging a look.
scene direction: tara os
tara: yeah, i mean, shouldn't we be trying to find it before she does?
buffy: i don't think that's what we should be worrying about right now.
scene direction: buffy giles sits
willow: they've got a point. whatever glory's planning on opening with the key, i'm guessing it won't be filled with candy and flowers.
xander: so where should we start looking? do we know where it used to be kept? who saw it last?
buffy: we did. giles and me. we, we know where it is.
xander: you what?
willow: you know, and you didn't tell us?
giles: there were ... reasons.
buffy: look, i-if glory knew that you guys knew where it was, i ...
scene direction: buffy sits
buffy: i-i just didn't wanna put you in that kind of danger.
scene direction: xander annoyed
xander: as opposed to the other kind we're always in?
willow: you should have said something.
buffy: will, there-
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: you're right.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: it's time.
giles: are you sure?
buffy: if they're gonna be risking their lives, they deserve to know.
xander: know what?
scene direction: buffy looks at her friends. they look at her.
buffy: there's something that you need to know ... about dawn.
scene change: cut to graveyard, night. the knight from 'checkpoint' (orlando) holding a sword.
orlando: the link must be severed. such is the will of god.
scene direction: we see two other knights standing with him, also holding swords. they all chant in unison.
knights: the key is the link. the link must be severed. such is the will of god. the key is the link. the link must be severed. such is the will of god.
jinx: you really think *he* is going to help you?
scene direction: the knights draw their swords and turn to see jinx, dreg, and another demon who looks like them, each holding an axe.
jinx: i fear your faith is gravely misplaced.
scene direction: the demons attack. the fight is brief; two of the demons are defeated. only jinx is left. he cowers and tries to back away as orlando advances, but jinx trips over something and falls on his butt. orlando stands over him and lifts his sword high.
orlando: shall we test your faith now?
scene direction: he starts to stab downward. jinx cringes. a hand appears and grabs the sword's blade.
glory: never send a minion to do a god's work.
scene direction: she backhands orlando, who goes flying backward, losing his grip on the sword. he crawls toward it on the ground as glory beats up the other two knights. she stabs one knight with his own sword, then uses it to kill the other as well. she drops the sword and walks toward where orlando is still trying to reach his sword.
glory: hey, nice sword.
scene direction: glory picks it up and points it at his face
glory: bet it hurts.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: fade in on willow and tara outside the magic shop, daylight. they are drawing symbols on the ground with colored sand. dawn walks up.
dawn: you guys doin' a spell?
willow: dawn, hey. y-yeah, we're doing an early warning incantation. if anything hellgodishly powerful comes within a hundred feet of the shop, then screechy siren things will, you know, screech.
tara: this should give us a heads-up so we can hide ... the, um, key.
willow: we already put one up around your house.
dawn: cool, can i help?
scene direction: willow and tara exchange a look.
willow: well, i don't think buffy would like the, uh, black arts bumpin' auras with the littlest summers.
scene direction: dawn nods resignedly
dawn: yeah, whatever.
scene direction: dawn goes into the shop
scene direction: tara quietly
tara: how can she not be real?
willow: she's real, she's just ... kinda ... new.
scene direction: willow throws a last handful of dust down; the symbols all flash brightly and disappear.
scene change: cut to inside magic shop. dawn enters. anya is dusting something while xander sits at the table reading.
dawn: hey. we on the case?
xander: yeah. right on top, perched, ready for action.
scene direction: xander anya looks uncomfortable
xander: how's my sweet fancy dawn doing?
scene direction: xander reaches over to tickle dawn's stomach. she giggles and tries to fight him off.
scene direction: dawn laughing
dawn: fine. what's up with you?
scene direction: dawn xander stops tickling
dawn: did you get into the sugar again?
scene direction: anya loud fake cheerful tone
anya: you make a very pretty little girl!
scene direction: xander jumps up.
scene direction: xander same fake tone
xander: anya, you wanna help me with that thing?
scene direction: anya same fake tone, with fake smile and fake laugh
anya: xander needs help with his thing!
scene direction: they walk off. dawn looks annoyed.
giles: i'm not sure our regular workout is ... challenging you any more. perhaps we should make it harder.
scene direction: giles and buffy walk in from the back room. buffy holds a bottle of water. giles is writing in a small book.
buffy: you always think harder is better. maybe next time i patrol i should carry a load of bricks, use a stake made of butter.
giles: very amusing.
scene direction: they walk over to the counter, where dawn is standing, with a notebook lying open on the counter. giles puts his book down on the counter also.
giles: i'm sure dawn feels that way about her schoolwork sometimes.
buffy: that true? how was school today?
dawn: um, the usual. big square building filled with boredom and despair.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: just how i remember it.
scene direction: giles closes his book, slides it off the counter and out of sight.
buffy: so, what's the homework sitch?
dawn: we have to imagine what we'll be like ten years from now and write a letter to our future self. the teacher's clearly so out of ideas.
scene direction: dawn giles closes a drawer behind the counter
dawn: wanna help?
buffy: maybe later. i have some stuff i have to do first.
scene direction: giles moves his hands away from the drawer. dawn looks over at him, then back at buffy.
dawn: is it about that weird girl that came to the house?
buffy: glory. and no it's not.
dawn: like you'd tell me anyway. dawn's too young and dawn's too delicate.
buffy: right. a young delicate pain in my butt.
dawn: i just think you're freakin' out 'cause you have to fight someone prettier than you. that is the case, right?
scene direction: buffy walks closer to her.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: glory is evil. and powerful.
scene direction: buffy normal tone
buffy: and in no way prettier than me.
dawn: i just think you're getting soft in your advanced age. she didn't look that tough to me.
scene direction: dawn smirks
scene change: cut to glory in her apartment, talking to orlando. his face is bloody.
glory: okay. one more time.
scene direction: glory circles around behind him
glory: just between me and you. our itsy-bitsy little secret.
scene direction: glory comes back to the front, grabs his face
glory: where ... is ... the key?
orlando: even if i knew, i'd die a thousand deaths before i'd tell you.
scene direction: glory annoyed
glory: well, you won't need a thousand, sweetie.
scene direction: glory pats his cheek, turns away
glory: i'll make the first one last. long time.
scene direction: she walks a few steps away. she's holding his sword. she turns back and shakes her head.
glory: what is it with you religious types?
scene direction: glory gasps, smiles. throws the sword aside and goes back to him
glory: it's intimacy, isn't it?
scene direction: she grabs his face, runs her hands down his chest.
glory: oh! you're just scared of letting someone in!
scene direction: glory circles around him, hugging him and rubbing his chest
glory: shh, shh, shh. it's okay. i know how difficult the first time can be. you don't have to be afraid.
scene direction: glory gets back to the front, puts her face right next to his
glory: just relax. you may not have the info i want ... but you still got something i need.
scene direction: she slides her fingers into his head. light streams out of the holes. orlando screams.
scene change: cut to huge pile of brightly wrapped gifts.
buffy voiceover: prezzies!
scene direction: pull out to reveal the summers living room. joyce and dawn on one couch, buffy on the other, on either side of the coffee-table laden with presents. xander, giles, tara, anya, and willow stand around. tara and xander hold gifts. willow wears a party hat and holds a bottle of bubble-blowing liquid.
willow: see, just what you needed.
scene direction: willow blows bubbles
buffy: you are very, very wise. now gimme, gimme, gimme!
scene direction: buffy tara hands her a gift. buffy begins ripping off the paper.
anya: this is extremely suspenseful! i want the presents.
scene direction: buffy pulls out a dress.
buffy: ohh ... it's beautiful. thank you, guys.
tara: well, we thought you'd get lots of crossbows, other killy stuff.
willow: yeah, so we figured, less killy, more frilly.
anya: gotta look.
scene direction: anya grabs the dress from buffy
anya: oh, it's just so lovely! oh, i wish it was mine!
scene direction: everyone gives her a look.
scene direction: anya quietly
anya: oh, like you weren't all thinking the same thing.
scene direction: anya puts the dress down
giles: i'm fairly certain i wasn't.
scene direction: giles whispers to xander
giles: i've got one just like it.
scene direction: dawn gets up
dawn: here. open mine.
scene direction: dawn gives gift to buffy
buffy: it's not gonna explode, is it?
scene direction: she opens it and removes a photo of herself and dawn, in a frame covered with seashells.
dawn: it's when we visited dad that summer in san diego.
scene direction: dawn buffy staring at it
dawn: um, i put the shells on it myself. we picked them off the beach.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: i remember.
scene direction: joyce smiles. everyone else looks thoughtful. dawn looks uncomfortable.
dawn: well, geez, don't get all movie-of-the-week. i was just too cheap to buy a real present.
buffy: thank you.
scene direction: buffy gets up and hugs dawn. buffy and joyce exchange a look over dawn's shoulder.
scene change: cut to later. joyce, buffy, and giles in the kitchen. giles pouring a glass of wine. buffy pouring a glass of water from a pitcher.
joyce: it still seems to me like there's a lot you don't know about this. i mean, is she dangerous?
buffy: no.
giles: well, now, wait just a second.
scene direction: giles camera pans across to the doorway. we see dawn in the dining room, looking down the hallway, listening in.
giles: i assume you're talking about her existence rather than her intentions.
scene direction: buffy looks down the hall, sees dawn.
joyce: exactly.
scene direction: buffy calls
buffy: dawn? what are you doing in there? party gettin' slow?
dawn: uh,
scene direction: dawn picks up a stack of plates from dining-room table
dawn: we need plates. cake time.
scene direction: she walks off. buffy smiles nervously.
scene change: cut to living room. tara and willow are preparing the cake. xander and anya stand in the doorway kissing. as dawn walks in, anya pushes xander away; willow and tara stop what they're doing. dawn puts plates on the table next to the cake, smiling. she stops smiling when she sees tara's face, then turns around to look at xander and anya.
dawn: why does everybody start acting all weird when i'm around?
xander: me? me not weird.
scene direction: tara looks worried. willow licks frosting off a birthday-cake candle.
dawn: i'm not an idiot. i know you're talking about me.
xander: no, no, we really weren't.
scene direction: anya fake voice
anya: we were talking about sex.
scene direction: buffy, joyce, and giles enter.
scene direction: dawn to joyce
dawn: they were talking about me, just like everybody is.
xander: again, not so much. in fact, none.
anya: we were talking about sex. i mean, you know us, sometimes we like to pretend stuff-
joyce: um...
xander: anya!
anya: you know, like, say there's a fireman, or a shepherd-
buffy: you know what? let's not have this exchange of images right now.
dawn: oh. right. of course. can't let dawn hear anything.
scene direction: dawn angry
dawn: fine. i'm just gonna go to bed. that way i won't accidentally get exposed to, like, words.
scene direction: she storms out. everyone looks unhappy.
scene direction: willow holds up a piece of cake on a plate
willow: cake?
scene change: cut to dawn storming into her bedroom, slamming the door. she leans against the wall and looks sullen.
scene change: cut to exterior of the house. dawn climbs out her window and down the trellis, climbs from the trellis onto the back porch. the curtains are drawn; we can see the shadows of the others moving inside the house. dawn goes down the back stairs, watching the windows, and turns around to find spike standing right behind her. he has something under his arm and a cigarette in his mouth. dawn gives a little yelp of surprise.
dawn: geez! lurk much?
spike: i wasn't lurking. i was standing about. it's a whole different vibe.
dawn: what is-
scene direction: dawn looks at the thing under his arm. folds her arms and smirks
dawn: are you giving buffy a birthday present?
scene direction: dawn spike looks at the box
dawn: oh my god. weird. and chocolates? lame. and the box is all bent, and, well, you know she'd never touch anything from you anyway.
scene direction: spike leans closer to her, speaks menacingly
spike: shouldn't you be tucked away in your beddy-bye? all warm and safe where nothing can eat you?
scene direction: dawn giggles
dawn: is that supposed to scare me?
scene direction: spike sighs, leans back
spike: little tremble wouldn't hurt.
dawn: sorry, it's just ... come on. *i'm* badder than you.
scene direction: spike insulted
spike: are not!
dawn: am too. you're standing in the bushes hugging a bent box of chocolates, and i'm-
spike: what? sneaking out to braid hair and watch teletubbies with your mates?
dawn: no.
scene direction: dawn softly, looking back at the house
dawn: i'm breaking into the magic shop ...
scene direction: dawn boastfully
dawn: to steal things.
scene direction: spike frowns
spike: magic shop, eh?
scene direction: spike looks over his shoulder; thoughtfully
spike: all number of beasties between here and there.
scene direction: spike dawn looks a little nervous
spike: bet they'd really go for a little red riding hood like you. bet that wouldn't sit too well with big sister.
scene direction: dawn uncertain
dawn: i can take care of myself.
scene direction: spike just looks at her. she looks around, anxious.
dawn: you wanna come steal some stuff?
spike: yeah, all right.
scene direction: dawn nods. they walk off.
scene change: cut to exterior magic shop, night. dawn stands by the door holding the chocolates while spike kneels, trying to pick the lock.
dawn: do you know how to do that or not?
spike: give us a sec. i usually just
scene direction: spike gestures
spike: burst through doors.
scene direction: the door finally opens.
spike: that's right!
scene direction: spike stands up, gives dawn his best smug smirk
spike: who's bad now?
scene direction: they enter.
spike: girl with a mission, eh?
scene direction: spike dawn turns on a flashlight
spike: what's the caper? jewels? ancient artifacts? or just plain hard cash liberated from the till?
dawn: a book.
spike: all this for a book?
scene direction: dawn walks confidently to the counter, puts down the chocolates and goes behind the counter.
dawn: i don't want the book. just what's inside. i think it was giles' notes.
scene direction: dawn shines the flashlight around as spike examines the stuff on the counter
dawn: he was standing here, and when i turned around it was gone.
scene direction: she begins feeling under the counter. spike takes something off the counter and puts it in his pocket.
scene direction: dawn finds the hidden drawer and pulls it open, revealing the book. she smiles in triumph.
scene change: cut to later.
spike: where did he learn to write so bloody small, from a fruit fly?
scene direction: we see dawn and spike sitting on the floor, three candles lit in front of them. dawn reading the book. spike's cigarette is mostly ash.
dawn: wait, here's something. uh, 'tarnis, 12th century. one of the founders of the monks of the order of dagon.'
scene direction: dawn spike stands up
dawn: 'their sole purpose appears to have been as protectors of the key.'
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: brown-robe types are always protecting something. it's the only way they can justify giving up girls.
scene direction: spike he looks around, spots olaf's hammer from 'triangle' in a display case
spike: hey! troll hammer.
scene direction: spike tries to pick it up but it's too heavy. it falls to the floor with a clang. he glances over to see if dawn noticed. she has her back to him.
spike: didn't go with my stuff anyway.
scene direction: he continues looking around at the shelves, looking bored, as dawn reads.
dawn: 'the key is not directly described in any known literature, but all research indicates an energy matrix vibrating at a dimensional frequency beyond normal human perception. only those outside reality can see the key's true nature.'
scene direction: dawn shakes head
dawn: outside reality. what's that mean?
spike: mm. second-sight blokes, mostly.
scene direction: spike puts out his cigarette in an item on the shelf
spike: or even just your run-of-the-mill lunatics.
scene direction: he resumes his seat beside dawn as she begins to get an expression of revelation.
scene direction: flash to hospital in 'listening to fear'.
crazy security guard: there!
scene direction: crazy security guard points at a scared dawn
crazy security guard: there's no one in there.
scene direction: flash to outside magic shop in 'the real me'.
crazy guy: i know what you are.
scene direction: back to dawn looking thoughtful.
spike: what else does it say about this key? is it made out of gold? maybe we can hock it, split the take.
dawn: um,
scene direction: dawn reads
dawn: 'the key is also susceptible to necromanced animal detection, particularly those of canine or serpent construct.'
scene direction: flash to the snake creature slithering across the floor in 'shadow.' dawn screaming as it rears up above her. the creature's eyes flashing red.
scene direction: back to dawn holding the book, pondering. spike reaches over and takes the book from her.
scene direction: spike frowns at book
spike: 'the monks possessed the ability to transform energy, bend reality.' blah, blah, blah.
scene direction: spike looks at dawn
spike: good lord, giles writes as dull as he talks, doesn't he?
scene direction: spike back to book
spike: 'they started work. but the council ... has suggested ... to us that they were interrupted. presumably by ... glory.'
scene direction: spike dawn continues staring into the distance as she listens
spike: 'they obviously did manage to accomplish the taste...'
scene direction: spike looks closer
spike: 'accomplish the task. they had to be certain the slayer would protect it with her life. so they sent the key to her ... in human form. in the form of a sister.'
scene direction: zoom in on dawn's shocked expression.
scene direction: spike frowns, looks over at her.
spike: huh! i guess that's you, nibblet.
scene direction: shot of dawn continuing to react. blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: exterior shot of the summers house, night.
scene change: cut to inside. willow and tara on a sofa, facing buffy in an armchair.
willow: not even a card, huh?
buffy: i wasn't really expecting one. no contact with civilians. there's probably a ... code name for it. you know, like radio silence, it's 'greeting card silence.'
willow: sorry.
buffy: maybe it's time to start a new tradition. birthdays without boyfriends. it could be just as much fun.
willow: preaching to the choir here, baby.
scene direction: willow smiles at tara
tara: yeah, some of my best-
scene direction: tara sees something across the room
tara: oh-oh my god.
scene direction: buffy turns to look behind her, gets up.
scene direction: we see dawn standing in the doorway. a large knife in one hand, blood running down her other arm from a wound across the inner forearm.
scene direction: dawn dazed
dawn: is this blood?
scene direction: we see joyce and giles across the room, turning to look.
buffy: dawn!
joyce: oh, baby.
scene direction: buffy and joyce rush over to dawn.
buffy: what did you do?!
dawn: this is blood, isn't it? it can't be me. i'm not a key.
scene direction: dawn buffy looks shocked
dawn: i'm not a thing.
joyce: oh, sweetie, no. wha-what is this all about?
scene direction: dawn grimly
dawn: what am i?
scene direction: dawn getting teary
dawn: am i real? am i anything?
scene direction: she begins to cry. joyce hugs her. buffy watches grimly, also a little teary-eyed.
scene change: cut to buffy seeing the others out.
willow: if you need anything-
buffy: thanks.
scene direction: willow hugs buffy and leaves. giles walks up to the door.
giles: perhaps i should stay, you know, just in case.
buffy: this is a family thing. we should deal with this.
giles: okay.
scene direction: giles leaves. buffy closes the door behind him.
scene change: cut to dawn sitting on her bed. joyce sits at the foot of the bed. buffy enters.
scene direction: dawn softly, not looking up
dawn: why didn't you tell me?
scene direction: joyce looks at buffy.
buffy: we were going to. it just...
scene direction: buffy trails off. dawn gives her an angry look
joyce: we thought it would be better if we waited until you were older.
dawn: how old am i now?
joyce: you're fourteen, sweetheart, you know that.
dawn: no. the monks. when did ... when did they ...
scene direction: dawn trails off
buffy: six months ago.
scene direction: dawn trying to hold back tears
dawn: i've only been alive for six months, huh?
joyce: honey, you've been alive a lot longer than that to us.
dawn: you don't know that! you don't know anything. i'm, i'm just a key, right? everything about me is made up.
buffy: dawn ...
scene direction: buffy sits on the bed next to dawn
buffy: mom and i know what we feel. i know i care about you. i know that i worry about you-
dawn: you worry about me because you have to. i'm your job. protect the key, right?
buffy: i worry because my sister is cutting herself!
dawn: yeah? how do you know? maybe this is just another fake memory from my fake family.
joyce: sweetheart-
dawn: get out.
buffy: dawn...
dawn: get out, get out, get out!
scene direction: her voice rises to a shriek on the last two words. joyce and buffy get up to leave. dawn lies down on the bed, curls up hugging a stuffed animal.
scene change: cut to magic shop, day.
buffy: we need answers, giles.
scene direction: buffy, willow, xander, and giles move across the room toward the counter. giles goes behind the counter, where anya is already moving around looking at stuff.
buffy: we need to find out everything we can about the key. what's it for, who created it.
xander: and why glory has a big girl-god jones for it.
buffy: this isn't about her. it's about dawn. she deserves to know where she came from. she needs to know. or it's just gonna eat away at her.
scene direction: giles looking at his notebook and papers on the counter
giles: how did she find these? how did she get in here?
scene direction: anya turns away from the back shelves, holding an item
anya: ew! who's been using the urn of ishtar as an ashtray?
scene direction: anya takes out a cigarette butt
scene direction: willow looks thoughtful. shot of buffy as the realization hits her.
scene change: cut to buffy bursting into spike's crypt. spike is sitting atop one of the coffins, painting his fingernails.
spike: morning, sunshine. if you've come around for eggs or sausage, i'm fresh out.
scene direction: buffy grabs the lid of the coffin and pulls it out from under spike so that he tumbles backward into the coffin. he sits up.
spike: hey, careful! these are wet.
scene direction: spike holds up his hand
scene direction: buffy slides the lid back onto the coffin so that it slams into spike's chest, pinning him against the opposite side of the coffin.
buffy: how could you let her find out like that? from books and papers? you hate me that much?
spike: i was just along for the ride. not like i knew she was mystical glowy key thing. nobody keeps me in the bloody loop, do they?
scene direction: buffy bangs the lid, steps back
buffy: you could have stopped her.
spike: oh, yeah, here it comes. something goes wrong in your life, blame spike. news flash, blondie.
scene direction: spike heaves the lid up off of him, tossing it aside
spike: if kid sis wants to grab a midnight stroll, she'll find a way sooner or later. i just thought she'd be safer with big bad looking over her shoulder.
scene direction: buffy glares at him silently for a moment
buffy: she shouldn't have found out like that.
spike: you didn't think you could keep the truth from her forever, did you?
scene direction: spike angrily
spike: maybe if *you* had been more honest with her in the first place, you wouldn't be trying to make yourself feel better with a round of kick the spike.
scene direction: buffy turns and storms out, slamming the door. spike sighs and shakes his head.
scene change: cut to joyce knocking on dawn's door, entering. dawn still lying on her side on the bed, with her back to the door.
joyce: honey? you're gonna be late for school.
dawn: i'm not going. blobs of energy don't need an education.
joyce: you want me to make you some soup?
scene direction: joyce sits on the bed
joyce: i think there's some chicken and stars...
dawn: i'm not sick!
scene direction: dawn quieter
dawn: i'm not anything.
joyce: honey, calm down, okay...
scene direction: joyce puts hand on dawn's back
scene direction: dawn faces her
dawn: don't tell me what to do.
scene direction: dawn pause
dawn: you're not my mother.
scene direction: joyce looks hurt.
scene direction: dawn lies back down for a moment, then gets up.
dawn: i changed my mind. i'd rather be at school.
scene direction: dawn grabs her backpack and leaves
scene change: cut to exterior hospital, day.
scene change: cut to interior, mental ward. ben enters carrying a tray with a bunch of cups of jello on it.
ben: all right, fellas, today we've got blues, greens, and...
scene direction: ben looks at tray
ben: oh, hey, chartreuse. it's a party.
orlando: it won't stick. the birds have been pecking too hard.
scene direction: orlando laughing
scene direction: ben looks over and sees orlando strapped down in one of the beds.
ben: byzantium.
jinx: yes, they've arrived.
scene direction: jinx we see jinx standing in the corner. he walks over to stand beside the knight's bed
jinx: unfortunate, but not completely unexpected.
ben: how many?
jinx: their numbers are few for the moment, but they will grow.
scene direction: jinx ben puts down the tray
jinx: the knights of byzantium are like ants. first you see one, then two, then the picnic's ruined. no matter how many we kill, they'll keep coming ... wave after wave.
scene direction: jinx walks over to ben
jinx: it's time to set old animosities aside. your fate is directly linked to her magnificently-scented glorificus. she's been extremely forgiving of your considerable foibles up until now, but if you persist in your defiance, she'll be forced to-
ben: to what? what is she going to do? send a six-pack of minions to bore me to death? glory can't lay a finger on me. you know it, i know it, she knows it. so save the threats, or i'll finish the job i started on your head.
scene direction: he shoves past jinx and exits.
scene change: cut to exterior of the summers house, night.
scene change: cut to dawn in her bedroom looking through her diaries. she has a bunch of them, of different sizes, shapes, covers, etc. she clutches one to her chin and looks pensive.
scene change: cut to buffy and joyce in the living room. they sit side-by-side on the sofa.
joyce: we can't just let her sit up there all alone.
buffy: she needs time. we can't force her to be all right with this.
joyce: that's your answer? just ... leave her alone and hope that everything works itself out?
buffy: no, but if i were her, i'd want a little bit of time right now. i wouldn't want my mother and my sister coming at me from all sides.
joyce: her school called today. she was suspended.
scene direction: we see dawn on the stairway above, listening.
scene direction: joyce os
joyce: she yelled at a teacher. the things she said, buffy, i mean she never used language like that
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: she probably feels like she can say or do anything right now. she's not real. we're not her family, we don't even know what she is.
scene direction: dawn looks shocked.
scene change: cut to dawn storming back into her room, crying. she slams the door, looks around, and begins to trash her room, shrieking. she shoves stuff off the desk, shoves books off the shelves, tears posters off the walls. she picks up one of her diaries and flips through it, then begins to tear out pages, throws them in the wastebasket, then throws the whole book in. extended sequence of dawn ripping pages out of diaries, throwing the pages and the diaries into the wastebasket.
scene direction: cut back to living room. joyce jumps up, staring at buffy in horror.
joyce: how can you talk about dawn as if she's a thing?
buffy: i'm not! i'm just ... saying that's probably how she feels.
joyce: well, then we have to show her that it isn't true. she needs to know that she's still a part of this family and that we love her.
buffy: it's not that simple! we're not gonna be able to fix this with a hug and a kiss and a bowl of soup! dawn needs to know where she came from, she needs real answers.
scene direction: joyce sits
joyce: what she needs is her sister, buffy, not the slayer.
buffy: the slayer is the only thing standing between dawn ... and this god from the bitch dimension that wants to shove her in some kind of lock and give her a good twirl. mom, i need to be out there, doing my job-
scene direction: a shrill beeping noise begins. they both jump up.
buffy: oh my god, glory. it's willow's spell.
scene direction: buffy runs toward stairs
scene direction: joyce following
joyce: wait. it's not glory.
scene change: cut to buffy kicking down dawn's door, rushing in followed by joyce. the beeping continues.
buffy: damn it.
scene direction: we see the wastebasket on fire. buffy grabs a blanket from the bed and tosses it over the flames to put them out.
buffy: dawn!
scene direction: joyce looking at something across the room
joyce: buffy.
buffy: no. no, she could have burned the house down.
joyce: buffy ... she's gone.
scene direction: buffy looks in the direction joyce is looking. shot of the open window. the alarm continues beeping. blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: fade in on magic shop, night.
buffy: she tore up her room ... she burned all of her diaries.
scene direction: buffy moves across the screen to sit in a chair by the table
xander: the dawnmeister chronicles?
scene direction: pan across xander to find willow and tara sitting beside the counter. giles and anya behind it. giles hands willow a cup of tea.
willow: she's been keeping those since ...
scene direction: willow pauses, looks confused
willow: i mean...
buffy: since she was seven. i remember too, will.
scene direction: buffy we see spike standing in the background behind buffy
buffy: we have to find her. fast. before glory or the knights of hack-n-slash figure out what - *who* she really is. mom's gonna stay at home in case she shows up. i figure we split up and sweep the city.
scene direction: buffy stands
buffy: anya. will you stay here in case she shows up? xander, giles, you guys take the center of town. willow, tara, west side. spike, you and i'll get the east side.
scene direction: everyone gets up to leave. spike moves forward to stand beside buffy.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: just find her ... please.
scene change: cut to dawn walking through a playground, night. she looks over at a swing-set.
scene direction: flash to a bright sunny day, small girl with dawn's hair on the swing, bigger girl with buffy's hair pushing her. (we only see them from the back.)
young dawn: bet you can't push me all the way around!
young buffy: oh yes i can!
young dawn: no you can't!
scene direction: flash back to today, the swing-set dark and empty. dawn looks sad, tears on her face. she turns and walks away.
scene change: cut to xander and giles walking through alleys in sunnydale, night. giles pokes around looking behind things, inside dumpsters, etc.
xander: there's so many things i remember. seeing dawn ... hanging with her ... listening to buffy complain about her. mostly that last one. how could it be that all those things never really happened?
giles: well, it takes some getting used to. the idea of a ... bright fourteen-year-old actually being living energy thousands of years old.
scene direction: they continue walking, looking around.
xander: i'm guessing some kind of super-powerful in her raw form.
giles: people have killed, died for it ... summoned armies to control the key.
xander: you know, uh ... she kinda has a crush on me.
giles: your point being?
scene direction: xander stops walking
xander: well nothing, no, uh ... just saying, powerful being ... big energy gal digging the xan-man.
scene direction: xander grins. giles frowns at him
xander: some guys are just cooler, you know?
scene direction: giles turns and walks away, rolling his eyes. xander follows.
scene change: cut to buffy and spike walking through the playground, night.
scene direction: buffy calls
buffy: dawn! dawn!
spike: yeah, that should do it.
buffy: shut up.
spike: the nibblet scampered off to get away from you. she hears you bellowing, she's gonna pack it in the opposite direction.
scene direction: spike they stop walking
spike: can't say i blame her.
scene direction: spike looking around
scene direction: buffy quietly, staring at the ground
buffy: you were right.
scene direction: buffy spike looks surprised
buffy: this is my fault. i should have told her.
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: look, she probably would have skipped off anyway, even if she never found out. she's not just a blob of energy, she's also a fourteen-year-old hormone bomb.
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: which one's screwing her up more right now, spin the bloody wheel.
scene direction: spike shrugs
spike: you'll find her, just in the nick of time, that's what you hero types do.
scene direction: buffy gives him a hopeful look.
scene direction: spike firmly
spike: you'll find her.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: and then what?
scene change: cut to dawn walking down a street. she steps aside as an ambulance goes past, siren wailing, lights flashing. she stares after it.
scene change: cut to exterior hospital, night. we see the emergency room door, ambulance parked next to it, people running inside with a patient on a gurney.
scene change: cut to dawn entering the hospital. she goes down a hall, looks around to make sure no one's watching, then slips though a door.
scene change: cut to dawn entering the mental ward. all the patients begin to mutter nervously as she enters.
patient 1: it's here. it's here. it's here.
patient 2: can't stop.
patient 1: it's here. it's here.
scene direction: patient 1 repeats over and over
patient 2: make it stop. the skin's too tight.
scene direction: patient 1 lifts his head to look at dawn
patient 1: can't hear it. what's the frequency? empty. all spilled out.
scene direction: dawn goes over to patient 1's bed
dawn: please. y-you see me, right? look at me.
scene direction: patient 1 stares at her, very fearful.
patient 2: can't stop it!
dawn: you know what i am, don't you? you all know!
scene direction: patient 1 stares at ceiling
patient 1: can't hear it, can't hear it, can't hear it
scene direction: patient 1 repeats over and over
dawn: tell me!
patient 1: can't hear it, can't hear it ...
scene direction: patient 1 repeats
dawn: what am i?
orlando: the key.
scene direction: dawn whips her head around to look at orlando.
orlando: i found it. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you.
scene direction: dawn rushes over to him
dawn: you know what the key is?
scene direction: dawn he stares at the ceiling still repeating 'thank you'
dawn: where did i come from? who made me, wha-what am i?
orlando: thank you, thank you...
dawn: please!
scene direction: orlando suddenly jerks his head up and yells
orlando: destroyer!
scene direction: orlando dawn jumps back
orlando: cracked ... bones ... the sun bleeding into the sky! the key is the link.
scene direction: dawn shakes her head, backing away
dawn: no, no.
orlando: the link must be severed. such is the will of god. such is the will of god. such is the will of god.
scene direction: orlando repeats
scene direction: he continues repeating this phrase as dawn backs away, then turns and runs away.
orlando: such is the will of god.
patient 1: can't hear it.
scene direction: orlando continues repeating his phrase and patient 1 repeats his, as the other madmen mutter also, getting louder and louder. dawn runs to the door, pulls it open and finds ben on the other side. he looks at her in surprise.
scene change: cut to hospital locker room. dawn sits at a small table. ben walks over carrying two cups, which he puts on the table.
ben: two steaming cups of chocolate goodness courtesy of ... whoever i swiped it from out of the cupboard.
scene direction: ben sits
ben: couldn't find any marshmallows. i'll try to steal some for next time.
dawn: don't like 'em anyway.
ben: what? is that even possible?
dawn: too squishy. when i was five, buffy told me they were monkey brains, and i-
scene direction: dawn stops
ben: dawn, was your mom brought back in? is that why you're here?
dawn: no.
scene direction: dawn bitterly
dawn: my *mom*'s just fine.
scene direction: ben puzzled
ben: is there anybody i can call? your sister?
dawn: i don't have a sister.
ben: oh ... you two have a fight? it's okay, i know how that goes. i got a sister too. they can be a real pain sometimes.
scene direction: ben dawn nods
ben: i tell you, there've been a lot of nights i wish she didn't exist either.
dawn: it's not buffy. it's me. i'm the one that doesn't exist.
scene direction: dawn sighs
ben: look, i know it can feel that way sometimes, but when you're older-
dawn: no, you don't understand. it's not real. none of this.
scene direction: dawn indicating her body
dawn: they made it.
ben: dawn-
dawn: i'm nothing! i'm just a thing the monks made so glory couldn't find me. i'm not real.
scene direction: ben looks extremely shocked and fearful. he gets to his feet.
scene direction: ben gets up
ben: you're the key?
dawn: how do you know about the key?
ben: go! before she finds you. don't ask me how she knows, 'cause she always knows. just go.
dawn: wait! calm down, just tell me-
scene direction: ben agitated
ben: you don't understand, you're a kid.
scene direction: ben dawn gets up
ben: you stay, she'll find you. she finds you, she'll hurt you.
dawn: what's wrong with you?
ben: you're what she's been searching for. i am telling you, run. you don't know, you -
scene direction: ben looks around nervously
ben: oh god. oh god no, she's coming.
scene direction: ben dawn looks frightened
ben: i can feel it, you've gotta get out. no ... oh no, she's here!
scene direction: he grabs dawn by the arms. she screams.
ben: she's here!
scene direction: in the middle of 'she's here,' ben morphs into glory. dawn gasps and stares at her in shock. glory looks confused.
glory: hey, don't i know you?
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: fade back in on the hospital. dawn is sitting in the chair again.
scene direction: glory os
glory: ugh, cotton!
scene direction: we see glory standing by the lockers, taking off ben's hospital scrubs (her back to the camera).
glory: could a fabric be more annoyingly pedestrian?
scene direction: glory reaches into a locker
glory: now *this* is what i'm talkin' about.
scene direction: glory pulls out a red silk blouse and slides it over her head, smiling
glory: makes your skin sing.
dawn: you're-you're ben...
scene direction: glory fastening the blouse behind her
glory: uh, it's an eensy more complicated than that. family always is, isn't it?
scene direction: dawn looks anxiously toward the door.
scene direction: glory still with her back to dawn
glory: you'd never make it. i'd rip out your spine before you got half a step. and those little legs?
scene direction: glory smiles over her shoulder at dawn
glory: they wouldn't be much good without one of those.
scene direction: suddenly glory is right next to dawn, bending over with her hands on her knees so that her face is at dawn's level.
glory: would they, dawnie?
scene direction: dawn looks alarmed.
glory: now. what i'm trying to noodle, is what in the world was the slayer's little sis doing here with gentle ben?
dawn: y-you don't remember?
glory: remember what?
scene direction: glory brushes hair off dawn's shoulders
glory: you were talking to him, not me.
scene direction: glory gasps, grabs dawn's chin
glory: oh, he wasn't being naughty, was he?
scene direction: a hospital guard enters.
guard: excuse me, ma'am. this area's for hospital personnel-
scene direction: glory turns around, grabs his head and twists it, breaking his neck. he falls to the floor. dawn gasps. glory turns back to dawn and leans down again.
glory: rude! i was talking!
scene direction: glory sighs
glory: what do you say ...
scene direction: glory pulls dawn to her feet
glory: we find a nice place off the beaten
scene direction: glory grabs dawn by the front of her blouse, spins her around
glory: where you and i can have a long uninterrupted chat.
scene direction: glory pushes a very scared dawn around in front of her.
scene change: cut to graveyard, night. buffy and spike walk up and encounter willow and tara.
willow: we looked, but no dawn.
scene direction: giles and xander approach.
buffy: what about the carousel?
tara: checked there too.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: nothing?
xander: sorry, buff.
buffy: anything could have happened to her. not just glory.
scene direction: they all look concerned.
buffy: we better check the hospital.
scene direction: they all walk off together.
scene change: cut to hospital. dawn and glory are in some sort of lab, with x-ray display cases along one wall, racks full of beakers and test tubes. glory shoves dawn against a metal counter.
scene direction: glory briskly
glory: okay. small talk over. i'm in a bit of a crunch here, so let's cut right to the ooey gooey center. your sister, the slayer, has my key. it's mine, i want it.
scene direction: glory softer
glory: do you know where she squirreled it away? there's ice cream and puppydogs in it for you if you start singin'.
scene direction: dawn nervously
dawn: i'm not sure. what does it look like?
scene direction: glory smiles fondly, puts hands over her heart
glory: well...
scene direction: glory walks a few steps away, gets nostalgic
glory: the last time i caught a peep ... it was a bright green swirly shimmer. really brought out the blue in my eyes.
scene direction: glory annoyed
glory: but then those sneaky little monks pulled an abracadabra, so now it could look like anything. you see the predicament i'm in.
dawn: maybe...
glory: yes?
dawn: well, maybe if you ... told me more about it, i'd know if i've seen it.
scene direction: glory sighs, leans forward, puts her hands on the table on either side of dawn. dawn gasps nervously. glory gazes at her for a moment.
glory: okay.
scene change: cut to the others waiting in the hospital emergency room. buffy turns away from the desk.
buffy: she wasn't brought in.
xander: which is a happy thing, right?
buffy: i don't know, i...
scene direction: a doctor goes by, leading a bunch of security guards.
doctor: ...found him on the floor in the break room. you guys gotta see him. his head's almost twisted clean off.
scene direction: buffy stares after them.
buffy: glory.
scene change: cut to exam room. dawn is now leaning against a wall while glory sits on the exam table.
dawn: so this ... key thing ... it's been around for a long time?
glory: well, not as long as me, but ... yeah. just this side of forever.
scene direction: dawn long pause, very quietly
dawn: is it evil?
glory: totally!
scene direction: dawn gives a little gasp of dismay.
scene direction: glory laughs
glory: well, no, not really. i guess it depends on your point of view.
dawn: what's it for? i mean ... if it's a key, there's gotta be a lock, right?
glory: yes. we have a winner.
dawn: s-so what does it open?
scene direction: glory sighs
glory: i smell a fox in my hen house.
scene direction: glory annoyed
glory: is that why you've been playing sugar and spice with old uncle ben?
scene direction: glory gets down from the table
glory: trying to get a peek at glory's unmentionables?
dawn: no, i-
glory: shh! i kinda wanna hear me talking right now. me talking.
scene direction: glory gets right up close to dawn
glory: you know what i'm starting to think? i'm thinking ... that maybe you ...
scene direction: glory dawn looking very apprehensive
glory: don't have any idea where my key is.
scene direction: glory spins away, speaking faster.
glory: very irritating. irrational. know what i mean, tiny snapdragon? like...
scene direction: she bangs her elbows down on the table, leans over and rubs her forehead, scowling as if she has a headache.
glory: ...bugs under my skin. and say,
scene direction: glory sighs, closes her eyes
glory: i'm feelin' a little...
dawn: what's wrong with you?
glory: hey.
scene direction: glory sighs, smiles
glory: hey!
scene direction: glory straightens up
glory: this doesn't have to be a complete waste of my precious time.
scene direction: glory turns and walks back toward dawn
glory: i've been meaning to send the slayer a message. and i could use a little pick-me-up. two birds, one stone, and
scene direction: glory claps her hands in front of dawn's nose
glory: boom.
scene direction: glory dawn looks very scared
glory: you have yummy dead birds.
scene direction: the door bursts open and buffy enters, followed by the others.
buffy: get away from my sister.
glory: hey, we were just talking about you.
scene direction: glory dawn runs over behind buffy
buffy: conversation's over, hell-bitch.
scene direction: buffy punches glory with a right, then a left, then ducks a punch, kicks glory. spike enters the room. buffy and glory grapple; buffy spins her around and slams her into a display case. glory kicks buffy away.
scene direction: shot of dawn hiding behind a garbage can, watching the fight.
scene direction: glory punches buffy. spike comes up behind glory and grabs her, pinning her arms against her sides. she struggles. buffy punches glory in the face while spike holds her.
spike: i thought you said this skank was tough.
scene direction: glory breaks free, grabs spike's arm and flips him over, throwing him against a wall. she picks him up, head-butts him as xander moves around behind them, holding a tire iron. glory throws spike and he slides across the exam table, crushing a bunch of medical equipment. he falls off the other side, lands against the wall unconscious. buffy watches looking concerned. we can see giles holding a crossbow.
glory: he wakes up, tell your boyfriend to watch his mouth.
scene direction: buffy gets in glory's face, glaring.
scene direction: buffy very firmly
buffy: he is not my boyfriend.
scene direction: giles tries to aim the crossbow, but buffy is between him and glory. buffy begins punching glory. we see willow and tara watching, both holding small leather bags and quietly chanting.
scene direction: buffy tries to kick but glory grabs her foot and looks at it.
glory: hey, those are really nice shoes.
scene direction: glory pushes buffy's foot away. buffy goes into a back-flip and kicks glory in the face on the way down.
buffy: giles, now!
scene direction: buffy dives out of the way and giles fires the crossbow. the arrow bounces off glory's stomach. she looks annoyed.
glory: oh, please. like that's-
scene direction: xander comes up behind her and hits her over the head with the tire iron.
glory: hey!
scene direction: glory grabs the tire iron and xander
glory: watch the hair.
scene direction: she flings xander away; he flies back into giles and they both crash into the x-ray display screens, which explode, showering sparks over them and dawn in her hiding place. dawn shrieks and covers her head.
scene direction: glory points the tire iron at each of them
glory: time to start the dyin'.
scene direction: glory we hear willow and tara still chanting
glory: start with the whelp!
scene direction: glory throws the tire iron like a javelin at dawn.
buffy: dawn!
scene direction: buffy throws herself into the tire iron's path, letting it stab her in the upper chest as she falls to the ground. dawn begins to crawl out toward her.
dawn: buffy!
buffy: get back!
glory: nice catch. is that the best you little crap-gnats can muster?
scene direction: glory buffy pulls the tire iron out of herself with a grimace of pain
glory: 'cause i gotta tell ya, so not impressed.
scene direction: glory walks in between tara and willow. they each throw a handful of glittery powder over her. it flutters down on her, covering her hair and body.
scene direction: glory angry
glory: look what you did to my dress, you little-
scene direction: willow claps her hands once
willow: discede!
scene direction: willow latin: 'disperse' or 'separate'
scene direction: glory explodes into a cloud of dust and disappears. willow falls to the floor.
tara: willow!
scene direction: tara rushes over to her
scene direction: buffy stares, turns to dawn.
buffy: dawn.
scene direction: buffy pulls dawn over and hugs her, looking back at willow and tara.
buffy: what did you do to her?
scene direction: willow panting, nose bleeding
willow: teleportation spell. still working out the kinks.
buffy: where'd you send her?
willow: don't know. that's one of the kinks.
scene change: cut to exterior nighttime. several hundred feet above sunnydale. we can see the lights of the city below. a cloud of dust appears and materializes into glory. she looks around, looks down.
glory: oh, sh-
scene direction: long shot of glory as a ball of light streaking toward the ground.
scene direction: cut back to hospital. tara crouches by willow as giles comes over. we see xander getting up also.
giles: that was an incredibly ... dangerous spell for an adept at your level.
scene direction: giles he and tara help willow sit up
scene direction: willow dazed
willow: yep. won't be trying that one again soon.
scene direction: shot of spike sitting up, looking annoyed.
scene direction: buffy and dawn sitting on the ground together.
buffy: are you okay? did she hurt you?
dawn: why do you care?
buffy: because i love you. you're my sister.
dawn: no i'm not.
buffy: yes you are.
scene direction: buffy lifts dawn's arm, so we can see her arm and hand are still bloody
buffy: look, it's blood. it's summers blood.
scene direction: buffy presses her hand against the tire-iron wound on her shoulder, wincing a little. she clasps her bloody hand in dawn's bloody hand.
buffy: it's just like mine. it doesn't matter where you came from, or, or how you got here. you are my sister.
scene direction: buffy pause
buffy: there's no way you could annoy me so much if you weren't.
scene direction: dawn looks at her for a moment, then hugs her tightly. they both get teary-eyed.
dawn: i was so scared.
buffy: me too.
scene direction: shot of the others watching them.
buffy: come on.
scene direction: buffy and dawn stand up.
dawn: wait. ben. he was here, he was trying to help me. he...
scene direction: dawn stops, looks confused
dawn: i ... i think he might have left before glory came ...
scene direction: dawn frowns
dawn: i can't, i can't remember.
scene direction: buffy takes her hand again
buffy: it's okay. don't worry about it. next time we see him, we'll thank him.
scene direction: buffy dawn still looking puzzled
buffy: i have to get you back home though. mom's freaking out.
scene direction: dawn eyes widen
dawn: oh. is she mad about the whole fire thing?
buffy: i think you sorta have a get-out-of-jail-free card on account of big love and trauma.
dawn: really? okay. good.
scene direction: they start to walk out, holding hands.
dawn: you think she'd raise my allowance?
buffy: don't push it.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producer: joss whedon.