scene change: *** episode begins ***
scene direction: exterior shot of xander's apartment building, night.
scene change: cut to xander lying in bed staring at the ceiling.
xander: you ever have that feeling where there's something you know you're supposed to do and you forgot what it was?
scene direction: we see anya lying next to him. she thinks about it.
anya: nope.
xander: i've been having that feeling, i just realized what it was.
scene direction: xander looks at anya
xander: like three weeks ago riley asked me to borrow a crescent wrench.
scene direction: xander shakes his head
xander: i keep having this feeling like i'm supposed to give it to him.
anya: well, that's not going to happen unless he comes back. you know, not to get the crescent wrench. just to come back.
xander: i just mean, sometimes i sort of forget that he's gone. it's like, "where's riley? oh wait, the central republic of where-in-the-hell."
scene direction: anya softly
anya: xander?
scene direction: he looks at her. we see they're holding hands.
anya: if you ever decide to go, i want a warning. you know, big flashing red lights, and-and-and one of those clocks that counts down like a bomb in a movie? and there's a whole bunch of, of colored wires, and i'm not sure which is the right one to cut, but i guess the green one, and then at the last second "no! the red one!" and then click, it stops with three-tenths of a second left, but then you don't leave.
scene direction: anya pause
anya: like that, okay?
xander: check. big bomb clock.
scene direction: xander she smiles
xander: come here.
scene direction: he puts his arm around her and she moves to put her head on his chest.
anya: maybe it's her.
xander: huh?
anya: well, maybe it won't happen to us because it's all about *her* messing things up. she couldn't make it work with angel, and then she let riley go away.
xander: yeah, relationship debris is kind of piling up on the buffy highway.
anya: hmm. humans make the same mistakes over and over. i saw it when i was a vengeance demon. some guy dumps a girl, she calls me, i exact vengeance, blah blah blah, the next year, same girl, different guy. i mean, after you smite a few of 'em you start going "my goodness, young lady ... maybe you're doing something wrong here too."
xander: i don't think it's a pattern with her. no, it's just ... you know, now that it happened again ... man number two ... i wonder how she's dealing with it.
scene change: cut to a courtyard filled with nuns. the camera follows one of them whom we only see from the back. she has a blonde curl of hair sticking out from under her habit.
scene direction: suddenly a vampire appears behind her, backing away from something. he bumps into the nun, turns around and grabs her, holds her in front of him. the nun screams. the vampire pushes her aside as buffy runs up and kicks him in the face. he falls backward, flips upright again. buffy kicks him again. they continue fighting as the nun watches in amazement.
scene direction: buffy hits the vampire, he kicks buffy twice, then she hits him a few times, kicks him a few times, and thrusts with her stake, but he grabs her arm and pushes her away. buffy ducks as he leaps at her, then she straightens up and stakes him.
scene direction: buffy tosses the stake aside and goes to the nun, who is still on the ground.
nun: what, what, what was that, he looked like a, a demon!
buffy: yeah, he did. are you okay?
nun: yeah, i think so.
buffy: here.
scene direction: buffy helps the nun get up.
buffy: so, um, a-about being a nun...
scene direction: buffy they begin to walk along together
buffy: you know, um, with the whole ... abjuring the company of men ... you know, how's that working for you? the... abjuring.
scene direction: nun confused
nun: um ... good.
buffy: yeah, do you, do you have to be like super-religious?
nun: well, uh...
buffy: how's the food?
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene direction: marc blucas (riley) is no longer shown as part of the regular cast.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: fade in on buffy and giles in the exercise room. giles has padded mitts on his hands and buffy is training, hitting giles in sequence.
giles: all right. switch. left lead.
scene direction: buffy continues hitting.
buffy: so you really think they might be able to help us?
giles: uh, if you mean are they gonna help us find out something about glory ... i saw that coming. you're dropping your shoulder.
scene direction: giles buffy looks surprised, continues hitting
giles: uh, the resources that the ... watchers council has at their disposal,
scene direction: giles wistfully
giles: i mean the central library alone is just...
scene direction: buffy stops hitting.
scene direction: buffy sternly
buffy: don't talk about the books again. you get all ... and sometimes there's drool.
scene direction: she resumes hitting.
giles: i'm sorry, but we, we've really exhausted the materials i have here, and we're coming up empty.
scene direction: giles more hitting
giles: you're, you're still dropping your shoulder. i can see when you're gonna go with your right.
scene direction: giles more hitting
giles: you're doing it again!
scene direction: buffy hits him sharply in the upper arm and he stumbles aside.
giles: ow!
buffy: sorry! sorry. so, glory's all you're gonna talk to them about, right?
scene direction: giles nods, rubs his shoulder
giles: let's, let's take a break.
scene direction: giles turns away
buffy: answer me.
scene direction: giles moving away, gestures with the mitts still on his hands
giles: i, i'm not gonna mention dawn's name. i wouldn't do that, i promise.
buffy: but you're gonna tell them about the key? that glory's looking for something called the key?
scene direction: giles removes mitts
giles: well, knowing her goal is, is crucial. i mean, i-i-if anything helps them uncover her origins, her, her plans...
buffy: i know. it's just i trust these watchers about as far as ... you could throw them.
scene direction: giles pouring himself a glass of water
giles: thank you very much.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i'm just freaked about the idea of giving them any information that could possibly lead them to dawn.
scene direction: buffy she comes over and sits on a bench. giles sits next to her
giles: truly, buffy, if i saw an alternative ... if, if the initiative were still around, i'd consider using them, but... they're gone, and then riley was, was, uh, the last link we had to the government.
scene direction: giles wipes his face with a towel. buffy looks down sadly.
giles: sorry, i didn't mean to...
buffy: it's okay. you can say his name.
scene direction: buffy pensively
buffy: i'm doing all right. these things happen. people break up and they move on ... for a while it feels like the end of the world, you know, but ... big picture...
giles: not so huge.
scene direction: buffy looks at him in disbelief.
buffy: not so huge? i just said it feels like the end of the world, don't you listen?
scene direction: giles looks dismayed. buffy leans in closer toward him.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: i'm teasing.
scene direction: giles relieved smile
giles: oh.
buffy: sort of. i'll be okay.
giles: well, i do hate to go if you're feeling badly.
buffy: look, if it help you find out something about glory,
scene direction: buffy pats him on the back
buffy: i'm thrilled to have you gone.
scene direction: she hops off the bench and walks away.
scene change: cut to magic shop, day. anya, xander, willow, tara, and buffy sit around the round table looking at books and papers. xander has willow on his right and anya on his left. giles stands next to the table fastening his tie.
anya: you're going away for a *week*? that's great!
giles: yes, yes, everybody seems delighted about it.
scene direction: giles picks something up to read
anya: well, i get to run the store, right?
scene direction: giles looks alarmed.
giles: you? ah, w-well, it's quite a lot for one person to take care of. well, i-i mean, the trash men, for example, i mean, they, they, they've been making such a mess in the back alley, the recycling people can't get in there to collect. well, somebody has to talk to them.
anya: i can take care of that.
tara: i'm envious, mr. giles. a trip to england sounds so exciting and exotic.
scene direction: tara realizes
tara: un...less you're english.
scene direction: tara giles grins
buffy: look, don't worry about the shop. we'll take care of it. we can open and close, and, and we'll deal with everyone.
scene direction: anya frowns.
willow: we can come by between classes! usually i use that time to copy over my class notes with a system of different colored pens ... but it's been pointed out to me that that's, you know, insane.
tara: i said "quirky."
scene direction: anya annoyed
anya: hello, i work here! i'll take care of everything.
scene direction: xander not looking up from his reading
xander: yeah, anya can do it!
anya: thanks, sweetie.
scene direction: anya pats him on shoulder
anya: well said.
giles: um, anya, while, while i completely trust you uh, uh, to take care of the inventory and the money, um ... dealing with people requires a certain, uh ... finesse.
scene direction: anya angry
anya: i have finesse! i have finesse coming out of my bottom! i can completely lie to the health inspector. i can, you know, distract him with coy smiles, and, and bribe him with money and goods.
xander: see there? she'll be great.
willow: don't worry, giles. i'll help her take care of everything. it'll be ship-shape. better, it'll be shop-shape.
scene direction: willow smiles
anya: xander, she's talking to giles like i'm not here. make her stop.
giles: perhaps i'd better call the airline...
willow: i'm just trying to help out! xander, tell her.
scene direction: willow smacks xander in the arm
giles: ...schedule an earlier flight back, excuse me.
anya: tell her that i don't need her help.
scene direction: xander sits between anya and willow looking uncomfortable.
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: so, how goes the slaying?
buffy: i killed something in a convent last night.
xander: in any other room, a frightening declaration. here, a welcome distraction.
scene direction: xander anya and willow both look at him
xander: tell us all about the killing, buff.
buffy: pretty standard. vampire staking. ooh! but i met a nun, and she let me try on her wimple.
xander: okay, now we're back to frightening.
scene change: cut to exterior of the summers house, night.
scene change: cut to joyce's bedroom. a light-blue bathrobe lies on the bed. buffy enters, sees it, frowns, looks up.
buffy: you!
scene direction: we see joyce wearing a striped sweater and dark pants. she has a scarf over part of her head.
buffy: you with the actual clothing, who are you?
scene direction: buffy turns toward dawn's bedroom door
buffy: dawn, come look at this.
joyce: it's hard to recognize me, huh?
scene direction: dawn enters.
dawn: whoa.
buffy: no more bathrobe.
joyce: hmm. i looked at it today, and there it was, all fuzzy and blue,
scene direction: joyce shot of the bathrobe
joyce: and i just couldn't stand it any more.
buffy: i don't think the rest of us will miss it much either.
dawn: it was getting a little ripe, mom.
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: maybe we should burn it.
dawn: it would keep the bugs away.
joyce: it doesn't smell! fine, fine, make your funny jokes at the expense of the woman with the hole in her skull.
scene direction: joyce sits on the bed
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: let's go. i think we've tired her out.
scene direction: buffy goes into her room. dawn follows. joyce watches them with a smile, then leans back and sighs.
scene direction: buffy walks into her room, sits on the bed and begins flipping through a magazine. dawn stands in the doorway watching.
dawn: whatcha doin'?
buffy: playing soccer.
dawn: can i hang out in here?
buffy: don't touch anything.
scene direction: dawn comes into the room, looks at a corkboard where several photos are hanging.
dawn: you took down his pictures.
buffy: yeah.
dawn: i ... i think i would've done that sooner. like, boom! "don't wanna see that face again."
buffy: it wasn't like that. i was never angry with him.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: okay, that's a lie. but it's not like i don't want to see his face.
dawn: i was just starting to kinda like the guy, and then ... gone. so fast.
buffy: it wasn't really so fast. him leaving. according to everyone who isn't me, it was kind of gradual.
dawn: oh. does that make it any better?
scene direction: dawn sits on the end of the bed.
buffy: no.
dawn: because you should have noticed earlier?
buffy: stop being insightful. it's creepy.
scene direction: buffy dawn continues looking at her. buffy speaks more softly.
buffy: it hurts. in all kinds of horrible ways. in the way where i'm furious at him ... in the way where i blame myself ... and all the little ways i imagine ... how i could have fixed things.
dawn: it'll get better.
scene direction: dawn frowns
dawn: won't it?
buffy: i hope so. yes. it has to.
scene direction: buffy dawn lies down, puts her head in buffy's lap. buffy strokes her hair
buffy: i'll just keep going like i have been, and every day it'll get a little bit better.
dawn: really? every day?
buffy: not really. but it'll be better soon.
dawn: it still feels all sudden to me. with him gone where no one can talk to him.
buffy: but you never know. maybe he'll come back. maybe he'll hate the jungle ... or maybe he'll want to give it another try. i could ... say all the things i didn't get to say.
scene change: cut to spike holding a box of chocolates. he talks to someone we can't see.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: um ... there's something i got to tell you. about showing you riley in that place.
scene direction: spike deep breath
spike: i didn't mean to ...
scene direction: spike long pause
spike: anyway, i know you're feeling all betrayed - by him, not me.
scene direction: spike the camera pans around and we see he is talking to a mannequin, which has no legs but wears a blue blouse and a blonde wig. it's set up on a block of stone so that it is about buffy's height.
spike: i was trying to help, you know. not like i made him be there, after all. actually trying to help you. best intentions.
scene direction: he gets a little agitated, paces a few steps away.
spike: i mean, you know, pretty state you'd be in, thinking things are all right
scene direction: spike moves back toward the mannequin
spike: while he's toddling halfway round the bend.
scene direction: spike stares at the mannequin, gets madder
spike: oh, i'll insult him if i want to! i'm the one who's on your side! me! doing you a favor!
scene direction: spike very angry
spike: and you, being dead petty about it - me, getting nothing but your hatred and your venom and - you ungrateful bitch!
scene direction: he loses control of himself, smashes the box of chocolates over the mannequin's head.
spike: bitch!
scene direction: he hits the mannequin with the chocolates again and it falls over. the box of chocolate goes flying.
scene direction: spike sighs. he picks up the mannequin and replaces it. he carefully rearranges the wig, sighs again, picks up the box of chocolate, tries to stuff the chocolates back in. he composes himself and faces the mannequin again.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: buffy ... there's something i wanted to tell you.
scene change: cut to magic shop. anya is working at the cash register. willow stands behind her with her back to the camera, holding a book. tara is standing by the shelves behind the register, where there are jars of magical supplies.
willow: good, and, and hellebore. it's up and to the right.
scene direction: tara takes down a vial and gives it to willow.
tara: hellebore, one of my favorites.
willow: it's powerful stuff.
scene direction: willow she and tara walk out from behind the counter
willow: i tried to use it to de-rat amy, and it didn't work. but i think it might have made her really smart.
scene direction: willow they approach the table, where a variety of magical supplies are laid out. willow puts the vial into a rack with some others.
willow: she keeps giving me these looks like she's planning something. rubbing her paws together.
scene direction: anya comes out from behind the counter and walks over to them.
scene direction: anya annoyed
anya: hey. what are you two doing?
willow: oh, we're gonna try out a few spells.
tara: there's this thing you can do where you create light, and we thought, what if you could make, like, simulated sunlight?
willow: yeah, so then, you know, there buffy is, middle of the night, and she finds this whole nest of vamps, a-and then she just goes, "presto!"
tara: only it won't be "presto" exactly.
willow: and, and voom! there's a, a floating ball of sunlight. vamps get dusty.
tara: you don't wanna look right at it, though.
anya: that's swell, but you can't use this stuff. giles has only been gone two days and you're already causing trouble. you shouldn't do things while he's gone.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: you're the fish!
anya: what?
scene direction: tara grins.
willow: the, the fish in the bowl, in the cat in the hat. he was always saying that the cat shouldn't be there while the mother was out.
anya: what are you talking about?
tara: it's a book. this cat does all this mischief.
willow: it's so cute. he balances a bunch of stuff, including that fish in the bowl! a-and, but don't try it for real when you're six, because then you're not allowed to have fish for five years.
scene direction: anya upset
anya: you're referencing literature i have no way to be familiar with. you're trying to make me feel left out, and you're stealing!
willow: i'm not stealing. i-i'm just taking things without paying for th...
scene direction: willow pauses
willow: in what twisted dictionary is that stealing?
tara: willow, maybe we should just pay.
willow: anya, giles would be totally fine with this. come on, it'll be fun.
scene direction: willow gets an idea
willow: we could show you how to do some stuff! you could be floatin' pencils by the end of the day.
anya: sometimes i miss having powers.
scene direction: anya willow grins. anya realizes something
anya: oh. oh! i know what this is!
scene direction: anya shaking her finger at them
anya: this is peer pressure! any second now you're gonna make me smoke tobacco and, and have drugs.
willow: look how easy.
scene direction: they all look at the table. a small stick of dried sage and a vial rise off the table and float in the air.
anya: hey! don't float the merchandise!
scene direction: anya grabs the items and puts them back on the table
scene direction: willow turns. a few items on the counter rise into the air.
anya: stop that!
scene direction: xander appears, walking past the floating stuff without noticing.
xander: hey, look at this, my two favorite girls!
scene direction: xander to tara
xander: three favorite girls.
anya: xander, willow's stealing. she's a burglar.
willow: right, the cunning, broad daylight in front of everyone burglar. xander, i'm just doing a spell to help buffy.
scene direction: xander nods.
anya: xander, giles left me in charge. tell her.
xander: hey, hey, judge xander requesting a recess here.
tara: you really shouldn't pull him into this.
xander: yeah, see? tara's with me.
scene direction: xander moves to stand behind tara
xander: protect me, tara.
scene direction: willow walks back behind the counter, holding a mortar and pestle
willow: xander, what i'm doing, it's a good thing. and if it doesn't work, giles never even needs to know about it.
scene direction: she puts the mortar and pestle on the counter, takes a pinch of something out of the bowl, and sprinkles it on the cash register. the register disappears in a puff of pink smoke.
willow: oops.
scene direction: anya rushes over. the others come over as well.
anya: the cash register! what did you do with the cash register? dear god!
willow: i'll fix it, i'll fix it! recursat.
scene direction: willow latin translation: revert/return
scene direction: another pink puff, and the register reappears, now with the receipt paper hanging out of it in long curls. smoke rises out of it.
willow: there, all back. good as new.
anya: money. did you hurt the money?
scene direction: anya opens the cash register and coughs as more smoke (not pink
anya: comes out) money good?
scene direction: anya 
anya: money good?
scene direction: anya takes out some money and shakes it at xander
anya: she endangered the money!
scene direction: anya xander shrugs
willow: of course, that's what she cares about.
scene direction: willow imitates anya
willow: "i like money better than people. people can so rarely be exchanged for goods and/or services."
scene direction: anya horrified
anya: xander, she's pretending to be me!
willow: well, can you even believe how she's acting?
xander: okay, you know what? i'm tired of being the one in the middle. i'm not gonna let you pull me into this.
willow: i'm not.
xander: whatever the issue is between you two, just figure it out without me.
scene direction: he begins to walk out.
anya: xander, don't go!
scene direction: xander slams the door behind him.
scene direction: willow softly
willow: you made him mad.
scene direction: anya angrily
anya: me?!
willow: tara, who do you think he was more mad at?
tara: um, you know? i think, uh, maybe, maybe you guys have some stuff you need to work out, you know, just really ... talk.
scene direction: she leaves. anya and willow look at each other.
scene change: cut to exterior of magic shop, day.
scene change: cut to inside. anya sits on a stool near the shelves, holding a pencil and notepad. willow is at the counter, where she has a large cauldron and a bunch of vials and containers laid out.
willow: fleabane...
scene direction: willow measures some stuff into her mortar
anya: fifteen cents.
scene direction: anya writes
willow: salamander eyes...
scene direction: willow puts them into the mortar
anya: ten bucks for twelve. bargain.
scene direction: anya writes
willow: bindweed.
scene direction: willow puts it in
anya: ugh, ooh, that's a pricey one.
scene direction: anya writes
willow: would you stop that? it's very distracting.
anya: fine. make your little ball of sunshine. i'll be quiet.
willow: good, because this spell is very sensitive. once i begin, any non-ritual word can disrupt it.
scene direction: willow mashes the ingredients together with the pestle
anya: fine.
willow: okay, here we go.
scene direction: she pours the mixture into the cauldron. then she closes her eyes and takes a deep breath.
anya: did you start yet?
scene direction: willow exhales loudly, turns to give anya an annoyed look
willow: shh, no! this is it.
scene direction: again she closes her eyes and inhales.
willow: spirits of light, i invoke thee. let the gloom of darkness part before you.
scene direction: a small circlet of yellow-orange light arises out of the cauldron and begins to spin.
willow: let the moonlight be made pale by your presence. spirits-
anya: is it done?
willow: shh!
scene direction: the circle of light flashes brighter and grows a bit larger.
willow: spirits of light, grant my wishes.
anya: sorry, i thought you were done.
scene direction: willow angry
willow: do you *wanna* screw this up?
scene direction: willow turns away to yell at anya. the circle of light grows bigger and brighter, and its spinning becomes less smooth. it continues to grow and twist crazily.
anya: no. no. i'm sure you can do that all on your own.
willow: hey anya, whatever really has you mad, why don't you just say it, like you do every other thought that stomps through your brain?
scene direction: anya stands up
anya: i believe i have said it.
willow: no. you haven't. come on. let it out!
scene direction: the circle of light suddenly drops down through the glass of the countertop and touches a large crystal that is in the display case underneath. it gives off a big flash of light and a large demon (olaf) suddenly appears next to the counter. willow and anya shriek and grab each other.
scene direction: olaf stumbles a bit, gets his balance and looks around. he is about seven feet tall, with long hair and green scaly skin and a big beard covering most of his face, and two curved horns on his head. he holds a large hammer.
scene direction: anya and willow stare in shock.
scene direction: olaf looks at himself, looks around. he turns and sees the two girls, and roars loudly. they shriek again and clutch each other.
scene direction: olaf turns and uses his hammer to smash a display case full of merchandise, then another, growling all the time. then he smashes a statue on a pedestal. he goes to the door and stumbles outside, still roaring.
scene direction: willow and anya come forward.
willow: he's not a ball of sunshine.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: fade in on buffy and tara in a classroom, surrounded by other students. tara holds some books. a professor hands buffy a piece of paper.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: new semester, new classes.
scene direction: buffy she and tara begin to walk out into the hallway
buffy: whole new vistas of knowledge to be confused and intimidated by.
scene direction: tara laughs
tara: i think this one's gonna be kind of fun. greek art's gonna touch on so many things -- mythology, history, philosophy...
scene direction: buffy whispering
buffy: the professor spit too much when he talked. it was like being at sea world. "the first five rows will get wet."
scene direction: tara laughs
tara: that was just, you know, um, enthusiasm.
buffy: it seemed very much like saliva.
tara: we'll sit farther back next time.
buffy: good plan.
scene direction: buffy stops walking, folds the paper and puts it in her bag
buffy: i need to keep this course. the only other thing that fits into my schedule is central american geopolitics.
scene direction: tara grimaces
tara: hmm.
buffy: and no, thank you.
scene direction: buffy resumes walking
buffy: i even hear the word jungle, all i can think of is him.
scene direction: buffy tara looks sympathetic
buffy: you know, "is that the one riley's in?" really don't need a daily 2:00 knife in the heart.
tara: is it that bad?
scene direction: buffy stops walking
buffy: sort of. but i'm starting to get perspective on the whole situation. you know, maybe riley's ... where he's supposed to be. you know, maybe he needed ... to be where he was needed.
tara: willow says that things always happen for a reason.
buffy: but you ever notice people only say that about bad things?
scene direction: buffy tara laughs
buffy: but not for me the furrowed brow.
scene direction: buffy resumes walking
buffy: what do you say we go pick up willow and indulge ourselves in a little after-school hamburger?
tara: i guess we could. she might still be at the magic shop. i was there earlier, and she and anya kinda got in this little squabble ... xander and i sort of cleared out, he was pretty upset.
scene direction: buffy stops walking, looks very concerned
buffy: anya and, and xander are in trouble?
tara: oh! no, i-i said that all wrong. it was nothing. willow and anya were sort of fighting, and then xander kind of snapped at both of them and he left.
scene direction: buffy alarmed
buffy: he left? xander left anya?
scene direction: tara frowning
tara: ummm ... no, not "left her" left her, he just left. it was only a little thing, it-
buffy: little thing?
scene direction: buffy tearfully
buffy: see, the thing is, the ... little things get bigger, you know, and, and, and, and, if you don't catch the little thing and then, boom! you have this, this, this whole huge thing!
tara: oh dear.
scene direction: buffy sniffling
buffy: not, not, not them with the little things! they can't break up!
tara: oh, i think-
buffy: they have a beautiful love.
tara: i think they'll be fine.
scene direction: buffy bursts into tears and puts her face against tara's shoulder, hugging her. tara looks alarmed, pats buffy on the back.
scene direction: buffy muffled
buffy: they have a miraculous love!
tara: what?
scene direction: buffy sobbing
buffy: a miraculous love!
scene change: cut to giles's convertible zooming down the streets of sunnydale. we see another car by the side of the road with its side all smashed in.
anya: there, that parked car! we're still on his trail.
scene direction: we see that anya is driving while willow sits in the passenger seat holding a bunch of papers. the car screeches around a corner.
willow: i don't even get how we made that guy, because, wow, advanced!
scene direction: willow she continues looking through the papers
anya: no one made him. he must have been trapped in that crystal, and you released him.
willow: *i* released him? no, this was definitely a "we" thing. or, or a "you" thing! i-it definite feels like a you thing.
anya: look, just find the reversal spell. and hurry! look what he did to that lamppost!
scene direction: we see a lamppost lying on the ground, broken in two.
willow: i'm trying. put the top up, the pages are all blowy!
anya: well, i don't know how to put the top up, i only just figured out what the left pedal does.
scene direction: anya turns to smile at willow
anya: it makes us stop!
scene direction: anya slams on the brake and they slow down with a screech. willow grabs the side of the car for balance. anya resumes driving.
willow: you don't know how to drive? why didn't you say you don't know how to drive?
anya: well, i couldn't know if i could until i tried, could i?
scene direction: they exchange an angry look.
willow: this is very, very bad. there, there's an ogre on the loose-
anya: troll.
willow: what?
anya: troll on the loose. now hold on, i'm gonna press the right pedal harder.
scene direction: anya smiling
anya: i expect us to accelerate.
scene direction: she presses on the gas pedal and they both lean back in their seats as the car speeds up. willow looks very angry.
scene direction: willow yelling over the engine noise
willow: there's a troll on the loose, and you're gonna crash giles' car!
scene direction: anya agreeing
anya: it's likely. we're going very fast. you should have listened to me and not done the spell. giles put me in charge.
willow: giles can be an idiot. the smart kind, but still.
anya: xander agreed.
willow: oh, right. xander doesn't step out of line.
scene direction: anya turns to look at her
anya: well, what do you mean by that?
willow: nothing.
scene direction: willow looks ahead, points at something. anya looks, twists the wheel quickly. the car screeches around another corner, narrowly misses hitting another parked car, which has its roof bashed in. some of the papers fly out of willow's hands and are gone with the wind behind the car. willow watches them go.
anya: find that spell quickly!
willow: whoa, that's gone.
scene change: cut to interior of the bronze. xander takes a bowl of peanuts from the counter and turns away. as he walks away he bumps into spike, who is drinking a mug of beer.
spike: hey, watch it.
scene direction: spike looks at xander
spike: oh, it's you.
xander: spike, don't let me stop you from not being here.
spike: i was here first, you know.
xander: uh-huh. go away.
scene direction: xander walks off. spike grins and follows him.
spike: now why would i do that, when it's bugging you so much having me here?
scene direction: xander sits at a round table and begins shelling the peanuts. spike watches.
spike: they have chicken wings too. also a sort of a flower-shaped thing they make from an onion. it's brilliant.
xander: are you talking to me hoping that i'll get so depressed that i'll impale myself on a fork right in front of you?
spike: lovely thought. if i don't hurt you myself, the chip wouldn't zap me. i could eat you that way. beat the onion thing all to hell.
scene direction: spike reaches over to take one of xander's peanuts. xander slaps his hand away.
xander: hey! those are mine.
spike: my, my. someone's in a temper.
scene direction: spike sits down opposite xander
spike: this all sympathetic misery borrowed from the slayer?
xander: what? no, nothing to do with buffy.
spike: so she's all right then. not, uh ... holding grudges.
xander: what are you talking about? what does buffy have to do with anything? what grudges?
spike: oh, yeah. okay. no need to talk about her then. i'm sure she's merrily slaying some pals of mine, having a grand old time.
scene direction: he eyes xander warily as he takes another sip of his beer.
buffy voiceover: this is very bad.
scene change: cut to interior of magic shop. buffy steps around the broken debris lying on the floor.
scene direction: buffy calling
buffy: willow? anya?
scene direction: tara comes running from the back room.
tara: they're not back there either, they're gone.
scene direction: tara anxious
tara: buffy, something's been here and willow's gone.
buffy: don't worry. we'll get her back, i promise.
scene direction: buffy tara nods
buffy: come on, this thing's probably leaving a huge trail.
scene direction: buffy grabs tara's hand and they both run out.
scene change: cut to city street, night. olaf comes round a corner with his hammer. he uses it to hit a large dumpster, which goes spinning across the street toward a bunch of passers-by. the people stare. olaf laughs loudly.
olaf: puny receptacle!
scene direction: he growls and hits a mailbox with his hammer. it flies toward the dumpster. the people begin to move away in alarm.
olaf: rrrah! you do well to flee, townspeople! i will pillage your lands and dwellings!
scene direction: olaf the people begin to run away
olaf: i will burn your crops and make merry sport with your more attractive daughters! ha ha ha! mark my words!
scene direction: he pauses and sniffs the air.
olaf: ooh! ale! i smell delicious ale!
scene direction: he walks off.
scene change: cut to interior of the bronze. spike and xander are playing pool together.
xander: and they get in these fights, and they're both looking at me like i'm the referee. also, sometimes i'll say something about anya, and willow'll get this look, this, um, "what the hell do you see in her" look.
spike: i know that look. lot of people never really got dru, you know.
xander: well, she was insane.
scene direction: xander spike looks offended
xander: then it's like, well, i get all torn. because, willow's my best friend and i really value her opinion, but, uh, anya's my girlfriend, you know?
spike: hmm. what does the slayer think of all this ... friction in the ranks?
scene direction: spike walks around the pool table to study the angles
spike: can't be good for morale.
xander: i don't know.
scene direction: spike bitterly
spike: she's a little ... preoccupied, maybe. it's understandable what with all the upset, all the blaming of innocent bystanders who got caught up in the mess.
xander: what?
scene direction: spike walks closer to xander
spike: i mean, did she *want* to be made a fool of? and, what does a person have to do to make it right?
scene direction: spike olaf walks past, bumping spike's shoulder
spike: hey, watch it, mate.
scene direction: spike turns to look up at olaf. both he and xander stare.
spike: on second thought, do what you like.
scene direction: olaf sniffs the air.
olaf: ale! yes!
scene direction: he walks over to where a guy is wheeling a dolly with two half-kegs on it.
olaf: ah, fragrant ale!
scene direction: olaf picks up a keg with one hand, lifts it to his mouth and begins to drink.
scene direction: xander still standing behind spike
xander: so, uh ... think i should run and get buffy?
scene direction: olaf finishes off the keg, sighs happily and tosses it aside. he looks around at the patrons staring at him in fear. he spots a waitress.
olaf: barmaid! bring me stronger ale, and some plump, succulent babies to eat.
xander: i'm gonna run and get buffy.
scene direction: xander pats spike on the shoulder
xander: or maybe you could fight him.
spike: yeah, i could do that, but i'm paralyzed with not caring very much.
scene direction: olaf pointing at spike
olaf: you there!
scene direction: olaf walks up to spike and xander
olaf: do you know where there are babies?
scene direction: spike to xander
spike: what do you think, the hospital?
xander: what? shut up!
scene direction: xander to olaf
xander: um ... listen...
olaf: i find myself very hungry. and when i'm hungry i grow short of patience.
xander: well, we can take care of the hungry, so how's about you just sit down in one of the ... sturdier chairs, and we can ... have a calm talk and something to eat.
olaf: can it be babies?
xander: well, not so much.
scene direction: olaf disappointed
olaf: oh.
xander: but maybe ... some roast pigs, and ... stags, and ... much hearty grog.
scene direction: xander grins nervously
spike: they've got this onion thing...
olaf: you cannot appease me! do not try!
scene direction: olaf turns away
olaf: more ale!
scene direction: he grabs the second keg off the dolly. xander and spike edge toward the door. just as they reach it, anya and willow enter. willow carries a book.
anya: xander! you shouldn't be here. there's a troll.
scene direction: anya she goes over to him and they put their arms around each other
xander: uh, a big guy? hammer?
scene direction: xander anya nods
xander: i think i noticed him.
scene direction: xander points
scene direction: anya and willow look over at where olaf is draining the second keg.
willow: i wish buffy was here.
scene direction: the door opens again and buffy runs in, followed by tara.
buffy: i'm here.
scene direction: willow looks surprised.
willow: i wish i had a million dollars.
scene direction: willow the others look at her
willow: just checking.
scene direction: buffy looks at olaf
buffy: what's going on? where did he come from?
scene direction: spike steps forward, looking nervous.
spike: hello, buffy.
scene direction: buffy looks at him.
scene direction: anya still holding on to xander
anya: willow stole ingredients and released him from a purple crystal. he's a troll.
scene direction: spike looks annoyed, steps back.
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: you did this?
willow: me? no, we. i mean, us.
scene direction: willow points to anya
willow: uh, her. it's very complex.
anya: well, we can stop him. willow, do the spell.
scene direction: willow opens her book to read.
willow: uh, let the conjuring be-
scene direction: olaf suddenly stops drinking and looks over at them.
olaf: stop!
scene direction: they all look up at him. he growls.
willow: nobody lets me finish!
olaf: you ... told the witch to do that, anyanka.
scene direction: olaf anya looks alarmed
olaf: you seem determined to put an end to all my fun. just like you always did when we were dating!
scene direction: buffy, tara, and willow stare at anya.
scene direction: spike stares at anya.
scene direction: xander frowns.
anya: uh, um...
xander: you dated him?
buffy: you dated a troll?
willow: and we're what, surprised by this?
anya: well, he wasn't a troll then! you know, he was just a big dumb guy, and ... well, you know, he cheated on me and i made him into a troll, which by the way is...
scene direction: anya embarrassed
anya: how i got the ... job as a vengeance demon.
scene direction: olaf roars angrily and smashes the countertop with his hammer. patrons scream and run away.
olaf: i did not cheat! not in my heart. it was only one wench! i, i had had a great deal of mead! next thing i know, i'm a troll! ohh ... ohh ... you did this, anyanka. you will die for this.
xander: but, but, you seem to enjoy the, the being a troll.
scene direction: olaf shrugs
olaf: i adjusted. and then what happened? witches.
scene direction: olaf willow looks offended
olaf: filthy, dirty, disgusting witches. they trapped me. i was imprisoned in that crystal for centuries. ohh, a curse on all witches! all must die!
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: willow, again.
willow: uh, uh,
scene direction: willow looks at book
willow: let the conjuring be undone. return the beast to native form.
olaf: comes toward them) witch, you must stop!
scene direction: willow quickly
willow: keep it far from us and ours as long as my voice shall sound.
scene direction: olaf pauses, looks down at himself. nothing happens. he begins to laugh. willow flips pages frantically.
scene direction: olaf laughs
olaf: it did not work!
willow: okay, wait! uh, "let the conjuring-"
scene direction: olaf lunges forward but buffy kicks him in the chest. as she drives him back, kicking and punching, spike follows right behind her. buffy ducks a punch and spike prepares to punch olaf himself, but gets caught by a swinging arm and goes flying aside.
scene direction: buffy seizes olaf and shoves him down on a pool table. they both grapple for his hammer. olaf shoves buffy and she goes flying backward into spike, who had just gotten up. they both fall down again. olaf gets up from the pool table and begins smashing the pillars that hold up the mezzanine level of the bronze. people scream and run.
scene direction: buffy is on the floor on top of spike. she tries to get up and spike acts like he's helping her, but actually he's hindering by clutching her around the waist. finally she gets to her feet and rushes off. spike watches her go with a smirk.
scene direction: olaf continues smashing pillars as people run around screaming. xander and anya cower in a corner. olaf smashes another pillar and the entire upper level of the bronze comes crashing down, bringing people and tables with it. buffy covers her head with her hands as the debris falls on her. some of the people manage to cling to the railings, dangling in the air, but then they lose their grips and fall to the floor below.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: fade back in on the bronze. a large piece of wood is pinning buffy down and she lifts it off her as tara helps. spike runs up and holds the thing out of the way so buffy can get up. she rushes over to willow, xander, and anya standing nearby.
buffy: where is he?
willow: gone.
buffy: xander, follow him.
scene direction: buffy xander nods
buffy: anya, willow, head back to the magic shop, find a spell that will actually stop him.
scene direction: the others leave. buffy goes over to tara who is trying to move some debris off a pair of injured people. buffy helps clear the stuff away and they check on the victims.
scene direction: we see spike crouching next to another injured woman. she has blood on her face. spike puts something under her head for support. buffy sees him and approaches.
buffy: what are you doing?
spike: making this woman more comfortable.
scene direction: spike looks up at buffy
spike: i'm not sampling, i'll have you know.
scene direction: spike looks around
spike: just look at all these lovely blood-covered people. i could, but not a taste for spike, not a lick. know you wouldn't like it.
scene direction: buffy amazed
buffy: you want credit for not feeding on bleeding disaster victims?
spike: well, yeah.
buffy: you're disgusting.
scene direction: buffy walks away
scene direction: spike looks after her in disbelief.
scene direction: spike to himself
spike: what's it take?
scene direction: spike sighs, continues helping the injured woman
scene change: cut to interior of the magic shop. willow is looking at bookshelves.
willow: hurry up! i'm taking everything on relocation spells, suspension spells, and, what the heck, spells to make him really sleepy, 'cause, slightly better.
scene direction: she takes some books and puts them on the table. anya approaches from the counter, her arms full of supplies.
anya: in case we need 'em, i'm getting more of all the things you stole.
willow: i didn't - why do you do that?
anya: what?
scene direction: anya goes back to the counter for more stuff
willow: you're so rude! i mean, sure, at first, ex-demon, doesn't know the rules. well, you been here forever. learn the rules.
scene direction: anya putting more stuff on table
anya: rules are stupid.
willow: great, whatever.
scene direction: willow they both sit down and open books
willow: i just thought you might be interested in learning to act more human. some of us enjoy it. oh, look for, uh, spells with dimensional portals too.
anya: i *am* a human. and there are ... many humans who are stranger than me.
willow: uh-huh, but, unless i'm really wrong about crazy larry down at the bus stop, he's probably not gonna turn xander into a troll.
anya: well, now, that's a very complicated proced...
scene direction: anya pauses
anya: oh. you think i'm gonna hurt xander? i would *never* hurt xander!
scene direction: anya willow looks skeptical
anya: you really think i would do that!
willow: anya, it's what you do. you spent what, a thousand years hurting men? you got your "thousand years of hurting men" gold watch.
anya: i was a demon then, and, and i don't even have any powers now! is this the spell?
scene direction: anya holds a book up
scene direction: willow looks
willow: only if you want him to double in size, and grow extra arms, which ... let's not. a-and by the way, you weren't a demon when you turned olaf into lord of the hammers. you managed that.
scene direction: willow anya continues looking at the book
willow: also, there's ... other ways to hurt xander.
anya: i don't do magic now. you're the one with that kind of power. in fact, d'hoffryn offered you my old job. you're closer to being a vengeance demon than i am, maybe xander should be afraid of you.
willow: xander's my best friend!
anya: oh, and you don't want anyone else to have him. i know what broke up him and cordelia, you know. it was you! and your lips!
willow: no it was not! well, yes it was so, but ... that was a long time ago. do you think i'd do that again?
anya: why not?
willow: well, hello, gay now.
anya: but you're always doing everything you can to, to point out how much i'm an outsider. you've known him since you were squalling infants together. you'll always know him better than i do. you could sweep in and, and poison his mind against me.
willow: you're insane! i am not gonna take him away and i am not gonna hurt him.
anya: well, i'm not either!
scene direction: suddenly the door crashes inward as olaf smashes it with his hammer. willow and anya jump up as he storms in, walking over the debris covering the floor.
olaf: aha!
scene direction: he walks up to them. anya thrusts willow behind her and they clutch each other.
olaf: i knew it. you two, performing more spells. i could be out pillaging, devouring babies, making merry with the local virgins, but instead, i had to come all the way back here to kill you.
willow: run!
scene direction: they try to run away but olaf grabs them with one arm around each of their waists. they scream. he throws them both over the counter and they crash into the merchandise shelves behind the counter. olaf lifts his hammer and chuckles.
scene direction: xander runs in.
xander: no, get away from them!
scene direction: olaf turns to laugh at xander
olaf: i will get away from them, after i kill them.
xander: you are not touching these women.
scene direction: xander runs at olaf, who simply holds out his hammer. xander runs into it and falls down, wincing. olaf picks him up by the front of his shirt. xander hits olaf across the face. olaf hits xander in the face with the hammer and xander flies across the room, smashes into a wall. he gets up. olaf watches him.
olaf: ah, you wish for more? admirable!
scene direction: xander runs forward and punches olaf. he lifts his arm to punch again but olaf grabs his arm with one hand, uses the other hand to hit xander in the head with his hammer. xander goes down. olaf reaches down and grabs the back of xander's jacket and slides xander across the floor. he crashes into another display case, gets to his feet again as olaf laughs.
scene direction: xander stumbles over to the stairs and climbs halfway up. he launches himself off the stairs at olaf, who catches him in midair and slams him to the floor. xander has blood on his forehead and mouth. olaf laughs again.
olaf: you fight well, although you are a tiny man.
scene direction: olaf lifts xander to his feet
olaf: i shall reward you. only one of your women shall die,
scene direction: olaf shot of anya and willow still lying on the floor
olaf: and you shall be the one to choose.
scene direction: zoom in on xander looking surprised. blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: fade back in on the magic shop. willow and anya sit up.
willow: did he just say-
olaf: ha ha. choose!
scene direction: olaf gestures at them with one arm, the other arm around xander's shoulders
olaf: anyanka or the witch. one of your women must die.
scene direction: the girls get to their feet as xander shakes his head.
xander: no. you are one crazy troll, i ... i'm not choosing between my girlfriend and my best friend. that's insane troll logic.
anya: go xander. i love you.
scene direction: olaf laughs, shakes xander by the shoulders
olaf: good for you. you are a loyal man.
scene direction: olaf takes xander by the wrist and breaks it. we hear the bone snap. the girls scream. xander doubles over in pain.
willow: xander!
olaf: now. choose!
anya: olaf, no!
scene direction: xander still bending over in pain
xander: i'm not choosing.
olaf: then you shall be the one who dies.
scene direction: olaf lifts his hammer with one hand, holds xander by the hair with the other
scene direction: anya rushes forward
anya: no!
scene direction: anya olaf looks at her
anya: choose me! just don't take him! don't take xander!
scene direction: willow moves up behind anya and throws a handful of powder at olaf.
willow: e conspectu abeat monstrum
scene direction: willow translation: "let the monster be gone from sight"
willow: 
scene direction: willow the cash register disappears
willow: damn.
scene direction: buffy and tara run in.
anya: buffy!
willow: tara, stay back!
scene direction: buffy rushes forward. olaf drops xander and turns to face her. she hits him in the stomach.
anya: buffy, the hammer! the strength's in the hammer!
scene direction: olaf swings the hammer at buffy. she ducks, hits him again. he hits her with the hammer and she lands on some debris. olaf lunges toward her.
scene direction: willow begins mixing more ingredients.
anya: how can i help?
willow: uh, distract him from buffy,
scene direction: willow shot of buffy and olaf grappling over the hammer again
willow: uh, piss him off.
anya: i don't know how.
willow: anya, i have faith in you. there is no one you cannot piss off.
scene direction: anya smiles proudly, rushes out from behind the counter.
scene direction: shot of buffy and olaf exchanging blows.
anya: hey olaf! you're as inadequate a troll as you were a boyfriend!
scene direction: olaf looks over at her with an angry grunt. buffy lands another blow.
scene direction: anya looks back at willow, who gives her the thumbs-up. anya looks back at olaf.
anya: uh, y-you're hairy, and unattractive, and even women trolls are put off by your various odors.
scene direction: willow muttering
willow: instrumentum ultionis, telum fabuloso, surge, surge, terram pro voca.
scene direction: willow translation: "instrument of revenge, fabled weapon, arise, arise," ?
scene direction: olaf's hammer glows green for a moment. he lifts buffy by the throat.
anya: your menacing stance is merely alarming!
scene direction: olaf hits buffy in the upper arm with his hammer and flings her aside to land against a wall.
anya: and your roar is less than full-throated!
olaf: desist!
scene direction: olaf stomps toward anya
olaf: my god, woman, it's been a thousand years, and yet you are as aggravating and emasculating as ever you were.
scene direction: he swings the hammer at anya. she ducks.
willow: vola cum viribus, dominum tuum nega. vola!
scene direction: willow translation: "i wish with all men, that god will deny you."
scene direction: olaf's hammer glows green again and flies out of his hand as he tries to swing it at anya. it lands on the floor and stops glowing. olaf stares at his hands. buffy gets up. anya goes over to willow.
anya: hey, good job.
willow: you too, very irritating.
scene direction: buffy confronting olaf
buffy: so. your power's in your hammer?
scene direction: she rushes at him. he backhands her and she flies across the room again, landing next to xander.
scene direction: anya calls to buffy
anya: oh, yeah! i forgot he still has all that troll strength.
scene direction: buffy gets up, helps xander up.
olaf: you shall all die! i will dispense no mercy now!
scene direction: buffy punches him in the face, then again, then a third time. she grabs his arm and twists it up behind his back. he grunts loudly and throws her off. she lands on the floor again.
olaf: what are you fighting for, minuscule blonde one? your friends?
scene direction: olaf gestures to anya comforting xander
olaf: these two?
scene direction: olaf chuckles
olaf: they will never last.
scene direction: olaf buffy's lower lip begins to tremble
olaf: anyanka is very difficult to live with, and he...
scene direction: olaf we see willow and anya both comforting xander
olaf: he's ludicrous and far too breakable. their love will never last.
scene direction: buffy looks on the verge of tears. she gives a sad little whimper. then she jumps to her feet, flips over olaf's head. he bends over and she flips herself across his back, spins and kicks him in the chest.
scene direction: shot of willow, xander, and anya watching as buffy drives olaf across the room.
willow: she's got him now.
scene direction: anya nods, then turns her attention to xander's broken wrist.
anya: poor baby.
scene direction: they all watch buffy driving olaf back in the other direction.
xander: you really dated him?
scene direction: anya grimaces
anya: yes.
xander: but you like me better, right?
scene direction: anya smiles
anya: yes! oh, and willow likes you too, but not in a sexy way, you know, 'cause she's gay.
scene direction: anya willow smiles at xander
anya: and she's not gonna try to break us up, so, you know, it's all okay.
scene direction: they all turn to look at the fighting again.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: their love...
scene direction: buffy punching noise, olaf grunts
buffy: will last ...
scene direction: buffy punch, grunt
buffy: forever!
scene direction: buffy punch, sound of olaf falling to the floor
scene direction: shot of olaf lying unconscious on the floor.
scene direction: shot of willow looking down at him.
willow: let the transposition be complete.
scene direction: olaf dissolves into nothing and disappears. willow smiles hugely. shot of tara watching.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: where did you send him?
scene direction: anya os
anya: the land of the trolls.
scene direction: we see them all standing around in the magic shop.
anya: he'll like it there. full of trolls.
willow: it's hard to be precise, though. alternate universes don't stay put. trying to send him to a specific place is sort of like ... like ... trying to hit a ... puppy, by throwing a live bee at it.
scene direction: willow they all look at her
willow: which is a weird image, and you should all just forget it.
anya: it's possible that he's in the land of perpetual wednesday ... or the crazy melty land ... or, you know, the world without shrimp.
tara: there's a world without shrimp?
scene direction: tara willow looks at her
tara: i'm allergic.
willow: he, he's probably in troll land.
buffy: i only care that he's not here, and i got this nifty souvenir.
scene direction: she turns and puts olaf's hammer on the countertop. after a moment, the glass breaks and the hammer, plus everything else on the counter, falls into the display case below with a loud crashing noise.
buffy: oops.
xander: the place is trashed enough anyway.
buffy: well, see how well things worked out?
scene direction: buffy looks fondly at anya and xander
buffy: and look at you guys. so good and alive and together.
scene direction: buffy starts to tear up again
buffy: so together, and ... good, and ... alive...
scene direction: buffy sniffles, turns to grab a tissue
buffy: oh, god...
scene direction: buffy crying
buffy: i'm ... i'm just so happy for you...
scene direction: she bursts into tears and buries her face in the tissue as the others stare.
scene change: cut to buffy and giles sitting at the table in the summers dining room.
giles: i cringe to think what the place would have looked like if i'd been away for longer than three days.
buffy: well, maybe we would have had time to clean it up. you know, if willow used some magicks to help.
giles: yes, 'cause nothing could possibly go wrong with that.
scene direction: joyce enters with a tray holding a teapot and several mugs.
joyce: rupert, i still don't understand -
scene direction: joyce giles gets up and takes the tray
joyce: oh, thank you - why the other watchers made you go all the way to england when they don't know anything.
scene direction: she and giles sit down on either side of buffy.
scene direction: giles passing out mugs
giles: well, they don't know it ... yet. i mean, they have no record of, of glory or anyone like her, but, uh, based on the information that i've given them, they're gonna look into it. um, they might have something soon.
buffy: what about the key? were they all over it?
scene direction: giles warily
giles: yes.
scene direction: giles to joyce
giles: you, you know all of this?
joyce: i got some of it myself, buffy told me the rest.
scene direction: giles pouring tea
giles: well, they're interested, certainly, and, uh, full of theories.
scene direction: giles sits back, lifting his cup
giles: most of them ... nonsensical.
scene direction: the camera pans past giles into the hallway. we see dawn coming down the stairs, stopping when she hears voices.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: they don't know that it's dawn.
scene direction: giles os
giles: no.
scene direction: cut back to dining room.
joyce: i still can't begin to grasp this. i mean, she's my little girl, i...
scene direction: cut back to dawn on the stairs listening.
scene direction: giles os
giles: it is disorienting.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: giles, what happens if they figure it out? what would they do?
scene direction: giles os
giles: i don't know.
scene direction: dawn frowns.
scene direction: cut back to dining room.
joyce: oh, i can't even think about this. it's too ... i'll get some more milk.
scene direction: cut back to dawn looking upset. the camera lingers on her expression. blackout.
executive producer: joss whedon. [an error occurred while processing this directive]