scene direction: episode opens on the summers kitchen. buffy is washing dishes while dawn wipes. giles walks over with a towel.
buffy: giles, you don't have to help. you cooked.
giles: oh, come on, i quite like to cook. helping you two out makes me feel useful.
scene direction: giles wiping a dish
dawn: wanna clean out the garage on saturday? you can feel indispensable.
scene direction: giles sarcastic
giles: hmm, how tempting.
buffy: dawn, if there are any plates in your room, let's have them before they get furry and we have to name them.
dawn: hey, i was like five then.
scene direction: dawn exits.
giles: how's she doing?
scene direction: giles buffy gives him a look
giles: and you?
buffy: i'm okay. well, some minutes are harder than others.
giles: i'm so sorry. all i can say is i-it will get better.
buffy: it has to.
scene direction: buffy stops washing dishes, begins drying her hands
buffy: we're holding up though, you know, getting into a routine.
giles: good, routine's good. in fact i was thinking that we might ... return to our training schedule.
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: i don't know. i was, um, thinking about ... maybe ... taking a break or something.
scene direction: she puts down her towel and walks into the living room. giles follows.
buffy: just ease off for a while. not get into full slay mode.
giles: but you were doing so well.
buffy: a-and you were great, helping me with everything.
scene direction: buffy they sit on the sofa
buffy: i'm just ... starting to feel ... uneasy about stuff.
giles: stuff?
buffy: training. slaying. all of it. it's just ... i mean ... i can beat up the demons until the cows come home. and then i can beat up the cows ... but i'm not sure i like what it's doing to me.
giles: but you've mastered so much. i mean, your strength and resilience alone- buffy: yeah. strength, resilience ... those are all words for hardness.
scene direction: giles pause
giles: i'm starting to feel like ... being the slayer is turning me into stone.
giles: turning you into stone? buffy- buffy: just ... think about it.
scene direction: giles gets up, paces
giles: i was never there for riley, not like i was for angel. i was terrible to dawn.
giles: at a time like this- buffy: no.
giles: you're bound to feel emotionally numb.
buffy: before that. riley left because i was shut down. he's gone. and now my mom is gone ... and i loved her more than anything ... and ... i don't know if she knew.
giles: oh, she knew.
scene direction: giles gets up, puts his hand on buffy's shoulder
giles: always.
buffy: i don't know. to slay, to kill ... i-it means being hard on the inside. maybe being the perfect slayer means being too hard to love at all. i already feel like i can hardly say the words.
giles: buffy...
buffy: giles ... i love you. love ... love, love, love, love, giles, it feels strange.
giles: well, i shouldn't wonder.
scene direction: giles frowns, sits on the coffee table
giles: how serious are you about this?
scene direction: buffy walks past him, sits on sofa
buffy: ten. i'm serious to the amount of ten.
giles: there is something ... in the watchers' diaries ... a quest.
buffy: a quest? like finding a grail or something?
giles: not a grail. maybe answers. it would take a day, perhaps two.
buffy: i'm not leaving dawn. not with glory looking for her.
scene direction: dawn enters in time to hear this.
dawn: sure you can.
scene direction: dawn sits next to buffy
dawn: what's the deal?
giles: some slayers before buffy found it helpful in ... regaining their focus, learning more about their role. there's a sacred place in the desert. it's, it's not far.
buffy: but i can't go.
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: i'm not leaving you, dawn.
dawn: if you have to go learn ... i mean, if it'll help you out ... i think you should do it.
scene direction: dawn shot of giles smiling
dawn: i can hang with the gang. i'll be okay.
scene direction: buffy looks at giles, turns to dawn and puts an arm around her.
buffy: i love you, dawn. you know that, right?
dawn: yeah. i love you too.
buffy: i love you ...
scene direction: buffy intensely
buffy: *really* love you.
scene direction: dawn nervous grin
dawn: gettin' weird.
buffy: sorry. but it's important that i tell you. weird love's better than no love.
scene direction: they hug.
scene change: cut to spike staring at something. we see warren in the background.
spike: some say it's better'n the real thing.
scene direction: warren nervous
warren: better than the real thing.
scene direction: shot of a pair of feet. pan slowly up to reveal the buffybot. she wears a knee-length pleated skirt of pale pink, a blouse of darker pink, and a black jacket. her eyes are closed as she stands there.
scene direction: spike os
spike: she looks good, but what about the rest?
scene direction: spike still staring at the bot.
spike: a little walk, a little talk...
scene direction: warren stuffing books into a backpack. we're in warren's parents' living room (same set from "i was made to love you").
spike: ...perhaps a zippy cartwheel...
warren: hey, she's, uh, great. you'll be real happy, i swear, she's got everything you asked for. all the extra programming, tons of real-world knowledge, the profiles you gave me about her family and friends.
spike: *all* the extra programming, right?
warren: ah, the, the stuff that you wanted, the, uh, scenario responses, you know, the, uh, uh, special ... skills ...
scene direction: warren nervous laugh
warren: all of it. now, you said that i could leave- warren tries to go past but spike grabs his arm.
spike: wait. i'm not sure i'm a satisfied customer. she looks a little shiny to me, you know, uh...
scene direction: close shot of the bot's closed eyes.
scene direction: spike os
spike: ...touch of plasticine...
scene direction: the eyes pop open.
buffybot: spike?
scene direction: longer shot of the buffybot smiling hugely.
buffybot: oh, spike!
scene direction: she hurries over to spike, puts her hands on his shoulders and kisses him on the mouth. she pulls back, still with a big smile.
spike: she'll do.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on glory lying on a sofa.
scene direction: glory annoyed
glory: he's getting stronger. i'm losing him, i'm losing control of him.
scene direction: we see that we're in glory's apartment. she has her legs up on one arm of the sofa. two of her sycophant demons sit on the other end of the sofa while three more stand behind.
jinx: you're speaking of ben, most glamorous yet tasteful one?
glory: he stabbed you in your body.
murk: jinx is all right, your highness. and we do have the new knowledge that the key is a human being.
scene direction: glory sits up
glory: if time runs out on us and all we're left with is info? then we're screwed.
jinx: oh, surely not!
scene direction: glory leans back
glory: no, we're screwed!
murk: but you are a god. the sacred glorificus!
glory: i'm a god in exile. far from the hellfires of home and ... sharing my body with an enemy that stabs my boys in their
scene direction: glory pokes jinx in the stomach, he groans and winces
glory: fleshy little stomachs.
scene direction: she sits back again in frustration, ignoring jinx. he makes a gesture to murk that he's okay.
glory: uhh! i'm in pain.
jinx: how can we help? we'll lay down our lives.
scene direction: glory ponders for a moment, gets up.
glory: the slayer and the key are connected. she's going to have contact with it. find out who's new in her life, who's ... special, who's different. watch her.
murk: we can do that, o ... thou.
glory: i want to hear about everyone she has contact with! that girl has my key ...
scene direction: glory the monks bow their heads
glory: and i'm trusting you boys to get it for me. if you love me ...
scene direction: glory they both look up
glory: get it for me.
scene direction: the monks smile happily at each other and at glory.
scene change: cut to a slice of desert. there are sandy dunes with some scraggly bushes, and one tree. heat waves shimmer in the air. giles' convertible comes around the dune, pulls up and stops. giles and buffy get out. giles goes to open the trunk. buffy follows. she wears a long brown coat over brown pants and a brown turtleneck. giles wears jeans, a black shirt and a brown suede jacket.
buffy: what's in the trunk?
giles: supplies.
scene direction: giles leans into the trunk
buffy: supplies? i was wondering about that. like, food, water, maybe a compass?
scene direction: giles straightens up holding stuff
giles: what about a book, a gourd, and a bunch of twigs?
buffy: i don't think i'll be that hungry.
giles: they're for me. come on, this way.
scene change: he walks off with buffy following. cut to them walking across the sand.
giles: you see, the location of the sacred place is a guarded secret. i can't take you there myself.
scene direction: giles they begin to climb up a dune
giles: i'll have to perform a ritual to ... transfer my guardianship of you, temporarily, to, to a guide. this'll do.
scene direction: he stops and begins putting the stuff down.
buffy: a guide but no food or water. so it leads me to the sacred place, and then a week later it leads you to my bleached bones?
giles: buffy, please. it takes more than a week to bleach bones.
scene direction: buffy grins. giles kneels on the ground and begins arranging the twigs around himself.
buffy: so, how's it start?
giles: i, uh, jump out of the circle and then jump back in it, and then, um ...
scene direction: giles embarrassed
giles: i shake my gourd.
buffy: i know this ritual! the ancient shamans were next called upon to do the hokey-pokey and turn themselves around.
scene direction: giles straightens up, gives her a sour look
giles: go quest.
scene direction: buffy makes an amused face. giles looks embarrassed. he sighs, rolls his eyes, jumps into the circle of twigs, jumps out, and shakes the gourd. nothing seems to happen. he and buffy look at each other.
buffy: and that's what it's all about.
scene change: cut to spike in his crypt, dancing around in sparring mode.
spike: what you searching for, slayer, a weak spot? hmm?
scene direction: we see that he's circling around the buffybot, who holds a stake in one hand. she is no longer wearing the jacket but still wears the pink skirt and sleeveless blouse.
spike: try me, give me the best you've got.
scene direction: she lunges at him with a very lame stabbing movement and he ducks out of the way.
buffybot: ooh!
scene direction: spike grabs her from behind with one arm around her neck and the other grabbing her hand.
buffybot: oh...
scene direction: buffybot panting
spike: is that your best, slayer?
buffybot: no.
spike: why not?
buffybot: i, i wanna hurt you, but i can't resist the sinister attraction of your cold and muscular body.
spike: maybe i should repay you for your gentleness. maybe i should let you go.
buffybot: no! no, spike. never let me go.
spike: you know you should be afraid of me. i'm bad.
scene direction: buffybot seductively
buffybot: you are. you're very, very bad.
scene direction: suddenly she twists out of his grasp and flings him across the room. he lands on his back on the bed. the buffybot jumps on top of him, straddling him, and puts her stake against his chest.
spike: are you gonna do it that way?
scene direction: buffybot grinning
buffybot: no.
scene direction: she grabs the neck of his t-shirt and rips it open as spike grins. then she puts the stake against his bare chest.
buffybot: this way.
scene direction: spike raises his eyebrows
spike: you can't do it.
buffybot: i could never do it.
scene direction: buffybot drops the stake
buffybot: i'm helpless against you, you fiend.
scene direction: spike shoves her off him.
scene direction: buffybot smiling
buffybot: oh!
scene direction: she rolls aside onto the floor and lands on her back. spike lands on top of her, pinning her wrists down. he kisses her and she kisses him back.
scene direction: spike whispers
spike: buffy...
scene direction: he slides down her body as the camera stays on her face.
scene change: cut to giles sitting on the sand in the middle of the circle of sticks. he has the book open and reads aloud in swahili.
scene change: cut to closer shot of his face as he continues to speak.
scene change: cut to buffy walking across the sand. we can hear giles still reading aloud. the background music is a woman vocalizing.
scene direction: buffy hears a growling noise and stops, looks to her left. we see a mountain lion sitting on the sand about thirty feet away.
buffy: hello, kitty.
scene direction: the lion begins to walk and buffy follows it. they go through a passageway made by two large outcroppings of rock. they come out on a large expanse of sandy desert dotted with small bushes or trees. buffy goes over to a rock and sits on it, looking around.
buffy: i know this place.
scene change: cut to tara closing a door. she turns away and we see there's a vial in her hand. she walks away from the door, into the room. we see xander behind a counter - it's his apartment. he comes out from behind the counter.
tara: okay. warning spell's all set.
xander: so that's it? we're all protected up for the night?
scene direction: they walk farther into the room. we see anya sitting on one sofa in the background. dawn sits on another, reading.
tara: well, i-it's probably not as good as willow could do. she's a natural with magic. in just the time i've known her, she's already blown right past me.
xander: so, when the whiz kid gets back from chem lab, can you have her ... you know, bulk up the spell a little? if you want, maybe, while anya and i go do a quick patrol?
anya: i don't see why we have to patrol just 'cause buffy's away.
scene direction: anya gets up, walks over to them
anya: i'd rather stay home and watch television.
scene direction: dawn watches anya go past her. shot of a pair of earrings(?) on the side table next to the sofa that anya just vacated.
scene direction: tara os
tara: oh yeah, willow wants to watch this thing on the history channel tonight,
scene direction: tara dawn gets up, walks over to the table
tara: salem witch trial stuff, which is only gonna get her all upset.
scene direction: anya os
anya: oh, i was there, it really wasn't that bad.
scene direction: anya dawn picks up the earrings and puts them in her pocket
anya: see, if you were really a witch, you could do a spell to escape.
scene change: cut to a shot of the three in the foreground and dawn in the background.
anya: ...so really it was only bad for the falsely accused, and, well, they never have a good time.
xander: no.
scene direction: dawn turns from the table to face the others.
dawn: so, guys, if this is a real slumber party, where's the pizza?
scene direction: as dawn walks away from the table toward the others, the camera stays on the window behind her. we see one of glory's demons looking in the window.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. pan across the pillars and the armchair to find spike and the buffy bot lying on the floor, on their sides. she lies in front with spike behind her, his arm around her waist, both covered with a pink sheet. spike's hair is all disarrayed and spikey.
buffybot: you're evil.
spike: and that excites you?
buffybot: it excites me, it terrifies me ... i try so hard to resist you and i can't.
spike: yeah?
scene direction: spike grins
buffybot: darn your sinister attraction.
scene direction: spike seriously
spike: are you afraid of me?
scene direction: buffybot big smile
buffybot: yes.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: you know i can't lie to you.
buffybot: i think you can. i think you can if i let you, and i want to let you. i want you to bite me and devour me until there's no more.
scene direction: spike smiles
spike: like this?
scene direction: he bites her neck lightly.
scene direction: buffybot smiling
buffybot: oh, spike, devour me!
spike: all right.
scene direction: he pulls her over on her back and gets on top of her.
buffybot: spike, i can't help myself. i love you.
spike: you're mine, buffy.
buffybot: should i start this program over?
spike: shh!
scene direction: spike frowns
spike: no programs. don't use that word. just be buffy.
scene direction: she smiles.
scene change: cut to willow and a bunch of other students coming out of a uc sunnydale building, night.
willow: it's got last week's notes too. just get it back to me by thursday.
scene direction: she's speaking to a male student to whom she is giving her notebook.
willow: and, uh, don't write in it or, or, uh, put a coffee mug down on it, or anything.
scene direction: willow the student walks offscreen
willow: and, and, just don't spill. okay. oh, oh, and don't fold the page corners down. bye!
scene direction: she continues walking, pauses as she approaches a pillar, continues. as she passes the pillar, one of glory's demons comes out from behind it and follows her.
scene change: cut to spike lying in his bed asleep. pan across to the buffy bot standing next to the bed, putting on her jacket.
buffybot: time to slay.
spike: yeah...
scene direction: spike mumbling in his sleep
scene direction: the bot picks up her stake and walks purposefully across the crypt.
buffybot: vampires of the world, beware.
scene direction: shot of spike still sleeping.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: fade in on the desert, night. giles sits on the hood of his car, drinking from a thermos. he looks up at the sky, sighs.
scene change: fade to buffy still sitting on the rock. she hugs her arms and shivers, lets her head drop and her eyes close.
scene direction: there's a noise like an owl hooting. buffy jerks awake, sighs.
scene change: cut to the buffy-bot walking through the graveyard, twirling her stake. xander and anya come around a corner.
buffybot: hey there!
xander: buffy!
buffybot: xander!
scene direction: shot of xander from the bot's perspective. she has a display similar to that of april in "i was made..." folders are labeled "hard drive," "slaying," "locate spike," and "make spike happy." under "make spike happy" are files labeled "kissing01," "kissing02," "positions01," "positions02," etc. up to "positions05" and "more".
scene direction: at the bottom is a readout that identifies xander with attributes - friend, carpenter, dates anya.
scene direction: buffybot os
buffybot: and ...
scene direction: the point of view shifts to anya. her attributes are - dates xander, likes money, ex-demon.
scene direction: buffybot os
buffybot: anya!
scene change: cut to shot of the buffy bot's face.
buffybot: how is your money?
scene direction: anya laughs in surprise
anya: fine. thank you for asking.
scene direction: anya smiles at xander
scene direction: buffybot smiling
buffybot: isn't it a beautiful night for killing evil things?
xander: i guess.
anya: you're back very early.
xander: yeah, how was the whole vision-quest experience?
buffybot: i don't understand that question. but thank you for asking.
scene direction: xander looks confused.
buffybot: you're my friend, and a carpenter.
xander: are you all right? you're all...
scene direction: spike os
spike: hey! wait up!
scene direction: spike comes running up.
scene direction: buffybot happily
buffybot: spike!
scene direction: buffybot to xander and anya
buffybot: it's spike. and he's wearing a coat.
scene direction: spike panting
spike: yes. uh ... hello all.
scene direction: the bot tries to take his hand but he pulls it away.
spike: uh, buffy's back early, i see. lots of patrolling all around tonight, then, is it?
scene direction: the bot takes his arm and he pretends it hurts, pulls it away.
spike: ow! hey. give a fella a break there, slayer.
scene direction: she smiles and tries to walk closer to him but he moves away, going closer to xander and anya.
spike: uh, i'm glad you're all here, uh, 'cause, uh, 'cause ... the place is crawling with vamps tonight. uh, tons of 'em. i, uh, think we oughta split up.
xander: we haven't seen any vamps, are you sure there's...
scene direction: they hear a noise and all look to the side. three vamps come around a corner.
anya: you're right.
spike: yep, guess so.
scene direction: the vamps rush at them. the buffybot kicks one and he falls back. spike engages the second vamp while xander and anya take the third. the bot fights like buffy.
scene direction: anya circles around with her stake while xander exchanges blows with the vamp. spike kicks his.
buffybot: spike, be careful!
scene direction: the bot kicks her vamp backward.
scene direction: shot of two of glory's demons watching the action from afar.
scene direction: spike grabs his vamp by the arm and hits him in the back.
scene direction: the third vamp has xander on the ground and anya runs behind him. xander gets his feet on the vamp's chest and shoves him back, right at anya, who stakes him.
scene direction: the bot punches her vamp several times and he goes down. spike is still struggling with his foe.
buffybot: no, get away from him.
scene direction: shot of the two demons still watching.
scene direction: the bot stakes her vamp. spike has his vamp kneeling on the ground. the bot tosses her stake to spike, who catches it and stakes the last vamp.
scene direction: anya helps xander up. spike and the buffybot come over to them.
spike: i think that was probably the big action for the night. you two can toddle on home if you want.
xander: uh ... buffy?
scene direction: buffybot smiling
buffybot: yes. spike and i will do it alone. you guys head home.
scene direction: xander looks suspicious, but he and anya leave anyway. spike and the bot watch them go. the bot frowns and wiggles her shoulders. spike comes around in front of her.
buffybot: hmm. i don't understand this. i-i did the slaying. i should be...
scene direction: spike leering
spike: satisfied?
scene direction: buffybot nods, pouts
buffybot: but i'm not. i-i'm all ...
scene direction: buffybot wiggles her shoulders
buffybot: my skin is all hot.
scene direction: buffybot spike grinning
buffybot: do i look hot to you?
spike: always.
scene direction: buffybot suggestively
buffybot: you better feel me to make sure.
spike: i can do that.
scene direction: they kiss.
scene change: cut to xander and anya walking through the dark graveyard, out the front gates. they turn and start walking down the sidewalk.
scene direction: anya coughs
anya: i breathed in like a quart of vampire dust. that can't be good.
scene direction: anya putting her stake away in a coat pocket
xander: i wish giles told us they were back from the desert. i wish i knew what went on there.
anya: oh, you know, slayer-watcher stuff. probably some silly ritual with an enchanted prairie dog or something.
scene direction: xander shakes head
xander: whatever it was, i think she's still a little spacy.
scene direction: anya shrugs
anya: she fought okay.
xander: yeah.
scene direction: xander stops walking
xander: hey, she never asked about dawn.
anya: that's true.
xander: something's wrong.
scene direction: moaning noises. xander and anya look back at the graveyard. shot of something blurry, impossible to see through the leaves of bushes that separate the graveyard from the street.
scene direction: xander softly
xander: i hear something.
scene direction: he gestures to anya to be quiet as they move toward the bushes.
scene direction: shot of spike and the bot still in the graveyard. spike lies on his back with the bot straddling him and rocking up and down. her skirt covers their hips.
buffybot: oh spike. you're the big bad.
scene direction: shot of anya and xander watching in amazement.
scene direction: buffybot os
buffybot: you're the big bad!
scene change: cut to willow and tara sitting on the sofa watching tv. tara has her head on willow's shoulder.
willow: those darn salem judges. with their less-satanic-than-thou attitude.
tara: oh, honey, let's change it. the discovery channel has koala bears.
scene direction: willow clicks the remote.
scene direction: xander and anya burst in.
xander: where's dawn?
tara: she, she's in the bedroom, she fell asleep.
xander: good.
willow: what's goin' on?
xander: buffy's gone insane.
scene direction: xander anya nods
willow: what? what'd she do?
xander: brace yourself. you're not gonna believe it.
tara: everyone, before we jump all over her, people do strange things when someone they love dies. when i lost my mother, i-i did some pretty dumb stuff, like lying to my family and staying out all night.
anya: buffy's boinking spike.
scene direction: xander nods. willow and tara look surprised.
scene direction: willow pause
willow: oh ... well, ta-tara's right. grief can be powerful, and we shouldn't judge- tara: what are you, kidding? she's nuts!
willow: well, it's not healthy, we're all agreeing there.
tara: what can we do?
anya: sometimes in the movies when they go crazy they slap 'em.
xander: i'm gonna go find her and talk to her. if she's losing it, we gotta help her before she gets herself hurt.
tara: you aren't really gonna slap her, are you?
xander: no, but if i have to see her straddle spike again, i will definitely knock myself unconscious.
scene direction: he turns and leaves. anya shrugs to herself.
scene change: cut to buffy asleep on a rock. there's a fire burning nearby. she sits up.
buffy: hello? who's there?
scene direction: on the other side of the fire, we see the first slayer (see episode "restless"). buffy stares.
scene change: cut to spike leaning against a pillar, smoking a cigarette. his hair is again messy. rustling noises. spike looks toward the door as the buffy bot rises from the floor in front of him. they both look over at the noise.
buffybot: who's that?
scene direction: spike begins fastening his pants
spike: uh ... down there.
scene direction: spike points to the trapdoor leading down to the cavern
spike: and, uh, no matter what, don't come out till i get you, okay?
scene direction: buffybot nods
buffybot: okay.
scene direction: she walks over to the trapdoor and starts down.
scene direction: spike looks toward the door as it opens and xander comes in.
spike: oh, it's you.
scene direction: xander closes door
xander: i saw you ... in the cemetery with buffy.
spike: yeah?
scene direction: spike with bravado
spike: can't see how it's any business of yours.
xander: it is my business because buffy's my friend .. and she's gone through some stuff lately that ... well, it's affected her, and you're taking advantage of her.
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: she's upset about her mum.
scene direction: spike takes a drag on his cigarette
spike: and if she turns to me for comfort, well, i'm not gonna deny it to her. i'm not a monster.
xander: yes. you are a monster. vampires are monsters. they make monster movies about them.
scene direction: spike sarcastic
spike: well, yeah, you got me there.
scene direction: xander grabs spike by the front of his shirt.
xander: spike, buffy has lost of friends, and we love her very much, and we'll do whatever it takes to protect her. now if that means killing you, then, well, that's just a bonus.
scene direction: the door opens and jinx appears.
jinx: gentlemen!
scene direction: jinx begins to enter, followed by more demons
jinx: i'm so sorry to intrude, but i wondered if i might beg a moment of your time.
scene direction: spike to xander
spike: friends of yours?
scene direction: jinx punches xander in the stomach.
spike: guess not.
scene direction: spike kicks jinx. xander struggles to his feet as the fight continues. xander takes another kick to the chin and goes down again. spike exchanges more blows until two of the demons get him by the arms. he head-butts another of them.
jinx: tie his hands! glory will want him restrained.
scene direction: spike struggling
spike: let me go!
jinx: careful with him. she will want the key intact.
spike: key? who's a key? i'm not the- jinx stuffs something in spike's mouth. spike continues struggling and muffled yelling as the demons drag him out.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on buffy at the fireside. throughout the ensuing scene we see the first slayer through the flames, sometimes obscuring her entirely.
buffy: i know you. you're the first slayer.
first slayer: this is a form. i am the guide.
buffy: i have a few questions ... about being the slayer. what about ... love? not just boyfriend love.
first slayer: you think you're losing your ability to love.
buffy: i-i didn't say that.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: yeah.
first slayer: you're afraid that being the slayer means losing your humanity.
buffy: does it?
first slayer: you are full of love. you love with all of your soul. it's brighter than the fire ... blinding. that's why you pull away from it.
scene direction: buffy surprised
buffy: i'm full of love? i'm not losing it?
first slayer: only if you reject it. love is pain, and the slayer forges strength from pain. love ... give ... forgive. risk the pain. it is your nature. love will bring you to your gift.
scene direction: buffy pause
buffy: what?
scene change: cut to the buffy bot climbing out of the underground cavern.
buffybot: spike?
scene direction: buffybot looks around
buffybot: i waited like you said, but then i missed you. spike?
scene direction: she walks off, not noticing xander lying on the ground behind her.
scene change: cut to darkness, sound of someone knocking on a door.
willow: xander, did you- willow opens the door to discover the buffy bot.
buffybot: spike's gone!
willow: bu-buffy. uh, come in. shh! it's late!
scene direction: willow ushers the bot in, closes the door. they walk through the darkened living room.
willow: wait.
scene direction: willow picks up a blanket from the floor, wraps it around herself, and she and the bot go out onto a balcony.
scene direction: willow whispers
willow: we can talk out here.
scene direction: she closes the door quietly and goes over to the bot.
willow: did xander find you? he-he was looking for you.
scene direction: shot of willow from the bot's perspective. her attributes are - best friend, gay (1999-present), witch, good with computers.
willow: he hasn't come back. anya sat up waiting.
buffybot: i don't know where xander is. i haven't seen him. and when i came out of the tunnel, spike was gone. i need to find him.
scene direction: willow winces
willow: um ... buffy, this thing with spike, i-i-it isn't true, is it? you didn't, you know, sleep with spike?
buffybot: no.
scene direction: willow smiles with relief.
buffybot: i had sex with spike.
scene direction: buffybot willow winces again
buffybot: i'm sorry if it bothers you. you're my best friend.
willow: i-i am. and i, i always will be, no matter what you do. i, i'm just trying to figure out why this happened, and i, i think with ... your mom and everything ... everyone was being all sympathetic, and, and making you feel weak. a-and spike wasn't like that. so, just this one time, you just ... did something kinda ... crazy.
scene direction: buffybot shakes head
buffybot: it wasn't one time. it was lots of times. and lots of different ways. i could make sketches.
scene direction: willow disgusted
willow: no! buffy, there is something seriously wrong here! i ...
scene direction: willow the bot looks confused
willow: okay, yeah, you've been with a vampire before, but angel had a soul.
buffybot: angel's lame. his hair grows straight up, and he's bloody stupid.
scene direction: willow confused
willow: okay ... look, i just wanna help you. let me help you.
buffybot: you're my best friend.
willow: yeah. again, i ... really am, but...
buffybot: you're recently gay.
willow: um...
scene direction: behind them, the apartment lights up. they turn to see through the window that xander has returned.
scene direction: xander inside
xander: guys! guys, wake up.
scene direction: willow gives the bot one last confused look and goes inside. the bot follows.
scene direction: tara sits up from sleeping on the floor. anya gets up from sleeping on the sofa.
anya: oh, xander, i was scared, are you hurt? what happened?
xander: guys ... demony kinds of guys. buffy.
buffybot: yes, that's me.
xander: the guys that work for glory, you said they're kind of like hobbits with leprosy? well this was a whole flock of hobbits, and they just grabbed spike. i think they're taking him to glory.
willow: but he, he knows about dawn.
scene direction: willow xander nods
buffybot: we have to get him back.
scene direction: buffybot willow gives her a disturbed look
xander: so how do we find him?
scene direction: everyone looks at the bot. she looks uncertain.
buffybot: i fight with weapons.
xander: yeah. i got nothin'. let's hit your place, we'll stock up.
willow: uh, tara, can you stay here a-and watch dawn?
tara: of course.
scene direction: the others all walk off.
scene direction: cut back to buffy in the desert.
buffy: i-i'm sorry, i, i'm just a little confused. i'm full of love, which is nice, and ... love will lead me to my gift?
first slayer: yes.
buffy: i'm getting a gift? or, or do you mean that, that i have a gift to give to someone else?
first slayer: death is your gift.
buffy: death ...
first slayer: is your gift.
buffy: okay, no. death is not a gift. my mother just died. i know this. if i have to kill demons because it makes the world a better place, then i kill demons, but it's not a gift to anybody.
scene direction: the first slayer is obscured by the flames, following the contours of her body.
first slayer: your question has been answered.
scene direction: she, as well as the fire, disappears. all that's left is cold gray rocks and sand. buffy frowns in confusion.
scene change: cut to glory's apartment. the door bursts open and the two main demons enter with spike, whose hands are tied behind him. glory gets up from the sofa where she was reading a magazine.
glory: what the hell is that, and why is his hair that color?
murk: stunning one, we believe he is...
scene direction: murk and jinx unison
murk and jinx: the key!
scene direction: spike looks annoyed. glory smiles.
glory: really? that's fantabulous!
scene direction: glory comes forward, shoves murk away
glory: and impossible.
scene direction: glory walks in a circle around spike
glory: he can't be the key, because, see, the key ... has to be pure.
scene direction: she returns to spike's front and sniffs at him.
glory: this is a vampire.
scene direction: glory spike looks at her in alarm
glory: lesson number one, vampires equal impure.
scene direction: spike a little scared
spike: yeah, damn right i'm impure. i'm as impure as the driven yellow snow. let me go.
glory: you can't even brain-suck a vampire.
scene direction: glory pats spike on the chest
glory: he's completely useless.
spike: so, i'm just gonna let myself out.
scene direction: he tries to escape but murk stops him.
jinx: but, your holiness, we observed the slayer. she protected this one above all others.
scene direction: jinx glory looks over his shoulder at spike
jinx: she treated him as precious.
glory: really? precious-ss-ss?
scene direction: she pushes jinx aside and goes over to spike again.
glory: let's take a peek at you, precious.
scene direction: glory looks him up and down
spike: sod off.
glory: oh...
scene direction: glory laughs
scene direction: she punches spike and he flies backward, crashes into the wall and slides down it. there's blood on his lip. glory comes over and tilts his head up to look at him.
glory: he doesn't look very fancy to me.
scene direction: glory grabs spike by the lower lip and pulls him upright
spike: hey, watch the lip!
glory: but if the slayer protects him, maybe appearances are deceiving.
scene direction: she throws spike onto her round bed. he lands on his back with his hands pinned underneath him. as he groans in pain, glory climbs on top of him.
glory: maybe there's something on the inside.
scene direction: she takes one finger, with its long red fingernail, and thrusts it into spike's stomach. he screams in pain. glory leans over him.
glory: shhh. what do you know, precious? what can i dig out of you?
scene direction: shot of spike writhing in pain.
scene change: cut to summers house, day. xander opens the door for the buffy bot, who enters followed by xander, anya, and willow. they walk into the living room.
scene direction: buffybot smiling
buffybot: this is my house.
xander: if we're gonna stop spike from blabbing about dawn, we're gonna need these.
scene direction: he goes to the big weapons chest and opens it.
anya: ooh, the big guns.
scene direction: xander takes out a weapon and gives it to anya, takes out another one for himself.
anya: saddling up. shouldn't we have guns?
buffybot: those are my weapons. give me something big and sharp.
willow: um, buffy, where do we go? where should we look for glory?
buffybot: she's a god. she wants the key.
xander: yeah, so we should look...
scene direction: they all look at the bot.
buffybot: i don't know. why are you all looking at me?
scene direction: buffybot they all look confused
xander: okay, buff, it's okay, you're right, you shouldn't have to know everything.
buffybot: we need to rescue spike.
willow: um ... buffy, i, i think you have more weapons upstairs. why don't you go get those?
anya: and maybe change your clothes, you know, something more ... fighty.
buffybot: i can do that. i'll be right back.
scene direction: she turns with a smile and walks off.
xander: okay, this has gone way too far. she thinks we're going to rescue spike.
willow: what *are* we gonna do?
xander: find him, keep him from talking, whatever it takes.
anya: what do we do with glory?
willow: whatever we do, we're gonna need buffy's help.
xander: then we're gonna have to talk to her.
willow: intervention time again?
xander: yeah, 'cause what we need right now is a sane buffy.
scene direction: the real buffy enters, still wearing her brown pants and turtleneck, carrying her brown coat.
buffy: whoa. group hang time?
scene direction: the others look surprised.
willow: tha-that was quick.
buffy: didn't seem like it to me. death is my gift.
scene direction: buffy scoffs
scene direction: the others are completely bemused.
xander: buffy, we need to talk.
scene direction: buffy alarmed
buffy: what's wrong? is dawn okay?
willow: dawn's fine.
xander: buffy, we care about you, and we're worried about you. the way you're acting, the things you're doing- anya: it's wrong.
willow: wait. this shouldn't be about blame.
buffy: blame? there's blame now?
willow: no, there's only love. and ... some fear.
anya: which is kind of thrown by the you having sex with spike.
buffy: the ... who whating how with huh?
anya: okay, that's denial. that usually comes before anger.
scene direction: buffy angrily
buffy: i am not having sex with spike!
anya: anger.
xander: no one is judging you. it's understandable. spike is strong and mysterious and sort of compact but well-muscled.
scene direction: buffy firmly
buffy: i am not having sex with spike! but i'm starting to think that you might be.
scene direction: xander scoffs
xander: buffy, i saw you. anya too.
scene direction: xander anya nods
xander: we saw you and spike ...
scene direction: xander gestures vaguely
xander: with the straddling.
scene direction: the buffy bot enters, looking offended.
buffybot: spike's mine. who's straddling spike?
scene direction: she strides up next to buffy, who stares at her in amazement.
buffy: oh my god.
scene direction: xander amazed
xander: and so say all of us.
buffybot: say, look at you. you look just like me! we're very pretty.
willow: two of them!
xander: hey, i know this! they're both buffy!
scene direction: buffy annoyed at him
buffy: no, *she*'s a robot. she acts just like that girlfriend-bot that warren guy made. you guys couldn't tell me apart from a robot?
buffybot: oh, i don't think i'm a robot.
anya: she's very well done.
scene direction: the bot smiles at her.
xander: spike must have had her built so he could program her t- buffy:
scene direction: xander horrified
xander: oh god.
willow: yikes. imagine the things- buffy: no! no, no imagining. any of you.
scene direction: xander raises his hand
xander: already got the visual.
buffybot: people. friends of mine. you're forgetting the most important thing. glory has spike and she's going to harm him.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: glory has spike?
scene direction: xander nervous laugh
xander: we were gonna bring that up.
anya: we were getting weapons.
buffy: grab 'em. we're going now. i have to kill him.
willow: we don't even know where to look.
scene direction: buffy ponders
buffy: i know where to start.
scene change: cut to glory's apartment. spike's hands are tied together over his head. he stands in the middle of the room with the demons around the edges. his shirt is torn partly off and his facc is bloody.
glory: i have a riddle for you, precious. how is a vampire that won't talk ... like an apple?
scene direction: she walks up to spike, grabs his hair and pulls his head back. we see that his chest is also bloody and has at least one ugly round wound from glory's finger. with her free hand she has a dagger which she uses to cut his chest. spike yells in pain.
glory: think i can do you in one long strip?
scene direction: spike weakly
spike: enough. no more. i'll tell you who the sodding key is.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on a shot of sunnydale, daylight. we see the hill atop which is glory's apartment building. pan down to the park below.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: glory's key-sniffing snake was about here when i killed it. it was headed back to her.
scene direction: willow os
willow: do you think she lives around here?
scene direction: pan down more to discover the scooby gang with giles and the buffy bot standing around. most of them have weapons, including the bot.
xander: it's not a lot to go on.
scene direction: closer shot of buffy.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: it's all we got.
scene direction: giles staring at the bot
giles: quite extraordinary really.
buffybot: thank you. but i really think we should be listening to the other buffy, giles.
scene direction: buffybot she pronounces it with a hard g like "guy"
buffybot: she's very smart and she's gonna help us save spike.
giles: guy-les?
scene direction: giles turns to address the real buffy
giles: spike didn't even bother to program my name properly.
buffy: listen, skirt girl, we are not going to save him. we're going to kill him. he knows who the key is, and there's no way he's not telling glory.
buffybot: you're right. he's evil.
scene direction: buffybot smiles
buffybot: but you should see him naked. i mean really.
scene direction: buffy grimaces in disgust.
buffy: okay, guys, split up and spread out. check the priciest-looking places first. xander, you come with me. willow, anya, stick together, and guy-les ... giles-
scene direction: buffy giles looks annoyed
buffy: you can watch ... it.
scene direction: giles sighs, turns back to the bot. she gives him a huge grin.
scene change: cut to glory holding a glass of water to spike's lips. he drinks it all. blood from the wound above his eye and the wound in his lip is trickling down his cheeks making him look quite battered.
glory: is that better?
scene direction: glory spike coughs
glory: do you think you can try to talk again now?
scene direction: glory spike nods
glory: good. because i'm tired of these games!
scene direction: she smashes the glass against spike's face. it breaks into pieces.
scene direction: glory turns away
glory: "i need time, i need a drink," you're a very needy little bloodsucker,
scene direction: glory sits on the sofa
glory: and it's not very attractive.
scene direction: spike glares at her.
glory: so start talkin'.
spike: yeah. okay. the key. here's the thing...
scene direction: shot of spike's hands with chains wrapped around them. he twists them around trying to loosen the chains.
spike: it's that guy... on tv ... what's his name?
scene direction: glory frowns
glory: on the television?
spike: that show ... the prize show ... where they guess what stuff cost?
murk: the price is right?
jinx: oh, bob barker!
murk: we will bring you bob barker! we will bring you the limp and beaten body of bob bark- glory:
scene direction: murk jumps up
murk: it is not bob barker, scabby morons! the key is new to this world ...
scene direction: murk turns back to face spike
murk: and bob barker is as old as grit.
scene direction: murk smiles
murk: the vampire ... is lying to me.
scene direction: spike giggles weakly
spike: yeah ... but it was fun. and guess what, bitch.
scene direction: spike shot of his hands still trying to twist free
spike: i'm not telling you jack. you're never gonna get your sodding key, 'cause you might be strong, but in our world, you're an idiot.
glory: i am a god.
spike: the god of what, bad home perms?
glory: shut up!
scene direction: glory takes a few steps toward him, pats her hair
glory: i command you, shut up!
spike: yeah, okay, sorry, but i just had no idea that gods were such prancing lightweights.
scene direction: spike glory scoffs in disbelief
spike: mark my words, the slayer ... is going to kick your skanky, lopsided ass
scene direction: spike glory checks out her ass in dismay
spike: back to whatever place would take a
scene direction: spike sizing her up
spike: cheap, whorish, fashion victim ex-god like you.
scene direction: glory spins around and delivers a spinning kick to spike's chest. his hands break free and he goes flying backward, crashing through the apartment's door and into the hallway outside. he does a back-somersault and winds up on the floor against a chair.
scene direction: spike mutters
spike: good plan, spike.
scene direction: shot of glory surrounded by her demons as the broken chain dangles in front of her.
glory: bring him back.
scene change: cut to spike bloodied and limping, dragging himself down the hall toward the elevator. the elevator doors close before he reaches them. one of glory's demons comes around the corner and sees him.
demon: here!
scene direction: spike tries to catch the elevator doors before they fully close but he's too late. he lands on his knees and pries the doors open.
spike: oh, god.
scene direction: several more demons come running around the corner.
scene direction: spike leans over and lets himself fall down the elevator shaft. he lands on top of the elevator as jinx appears in the doorway.
scene direction: shot of the descending elevator with spike sprawled on top of it. jinx and another demon watch it go, then they turn away.
scene direction: spike rolls over and opens the hatch in the elevator ceiling, falls through it and lands on the floor of the elevator.
scene change: cut to the lobby of the building. the elevator doors open as the group of demons comes down the stairs. spike gets slowly to his feet.
murk: you do not insult glory by escaping.
scene direction: spike scowls at them.
scene direction: the front door opens and buffy and xander enter, carrying crossbows.
murk: slayer!
scene direction: spike closes his eyes in relief and falls back against the elevator wall as xander grabs one demon by his axe. buffy shoots the demon with her crossbow. murk kicks the crossbow out of buffy's hands and punches her.
scene direction: shot of spike crumpling to the floor.
scene direction: buffy kicks murk down, ducks a punch from another demon and punches him, kicks a third.
scene direction: xander uses the axe like a staff to hit another demon, fends him off and stabs a second demon with the axe, takes two punches from the first demon, ducks another punch and hits the demon on the chin with the axe handle.
scene direction: buffy blocks kicks from murk, kicks him in the face, ducks a punch, throws a punch that he blocks, punches him a few times.
scene direction: a demon grabs xander around the neck from behind.
scene direction: giles and the buffy bot enter as buffy continues fighting murk.
giles: buffy, we're here.
scene direction: giles loads his crossbow as buffy delivers a final kick that sends murk flying. the bot looks over to the elevator.
buffybot: spike! spike's in there!
scene direction: xander continues struggling with the demon who has him around the neck and is threatening him with a small dagger. giles hits the demon with his crossbow and grabs him as xander pulls free. xander flies forward and lands on another demon on the floor.
scene direction: the bot goes over to the elevator and looks at spike, who sits on the floor. he's bloody and bruised all over his face and upper chest.
scene direction: xander punches the demon.
scene direction: giles continues struggling with the other demon until it throws him to the floor and puts the crossbow to his throat.
giles: buffy!
scene direction: the buffy bot whirls around.
scene direction: the real buffy whirls around.
scene direction: the bot throws her weapon aside and grabs the demon off giles. the demon hits her with the crossbow and she flies against the elevator control panel.
scene direction: the real buffy kicks the demon, then punches him and he goes down.
scene direction: the bot sinks to the floor looking surprised as tendrils of blue light flash across her body.
scene direction: jinx and murk run for the stairs. buffy watches them go.
scene change: cut to glory's apartment. jinx and murk attempt to explain to glory what happened.
jinx: the slayer was there.
murk: a lethal fighter.
jinx: she seemed to be everywhere at once.
murk: she had friends. with many weapons!
jinx: they may have been demons.
scene direction: glory smiles
glory: and where's my vampire?
scene direction: the demons look at each other and stammer.
scene direction: shot of the broken door to the apartment. sound of the demons screaming.
scene change: cut to shot of the buffy bot's back. a flap of skin is peeled back revealing her inner workings. willow is poking at the machinery with tools. it makes sputtering noises.
scene direction: pull out to reveal tara standing next to willow. they're in the magic shop. the bot is bent over the table.
scene direction: tara looks across the table
tara: is it weird?
scene direction: we see buffy standing on the other side of the table. dawn sits beside her.
buffy: oh yeah.
scene direction: buffy walks closer
buffy: at least it's not a very good copy.
scene direction: buffy sits in the chair next to the bot
buffy: i mean...
scene direction: buffy lays her head down on the table to look into the bot's face.
buffy: ...look at it.
willow: uh ... yeah.
scene direction: willow looks up at tara
scene direction: the door opens and they look up as xander and giles enter. buffy gets up.
buffy: what'd you guys do with spike? and please let the story have a dusty ending.
xander: we dumped him back in his crypt.
giles: tried to find out if he'd ... told her anything, but he was too badly beaten to make much sense.
anya: well, even if he told her, he'd just lie to us about it anyway, right?
buffy: yeah, you can count on it. but i have to know. now. if he did give us up, dawn and i need to get out of town. i mean, she could be on her way right now.
scene direction: dawn looks alarmed.
scene direction: giles to dawn
giles: but, uh, not to worry, you know, i'm sure we'll all be perfectly safe.
scene direction: dawn smiles
dawn: we're safe, right. and, uh, spike built a robot buffy to play checkers with.
scene direction: buffy frowns, looks at tara.
tara: i-it sounded convincing when i thought it.
willow: hey! i-i think i found somethin'.
scene direction: anya comes over and looks at the machinery.
anya: uch! looks very complicated in there. personally, i'd rather look at guts.
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: i found where she's broken. some of these wires got fried extra crispy.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: it's an easy fix.
scene direction: buffy gives her an astonished look.
willow: i mean ... not that i would.
xander: god, i feel ... kind of bad for the guy. gets all whupped and his best toy gets taken away.
buffy: xander. please don't be suggesting what i'd have to kill you for suggesting.
xander: no, no, travesty, completely on board, it's just ... the guy was so thrashed.
scene direction: buffy considers this.
scene change: cut to spike lying in his crypt, daylight outside. his facial bruises have swelled up and his hair is still messy.
scene direction: the door slams open. the buffy bot stands there, no longer wearing her jacket but still in the pink blouse and skirt. she walks briskly over to the coffin where spike's lying.
buffybot: spike! you're covered in sexy wounds.
scene direction: spike turns his head toward her. his eyes are swollen mostly shut.
spike: yeah.
scene direction: spike starts to sit up
spike: i feel real sexy.
scene direction: spike slowly pulls himself upright
spike: where you been?
buffybot: i fell down and got confused. willow fixed me. she's gay.
spike: will fixed you? i thought they'd melt you into scrap.
buffybot: they were confused too.
scene direction: buffybot smiles
buffybot: do you wanna ravage me now?
scene direction: spike weakly
spike: give us a minute. got some bones need mending.
buffybot: why did you let that glory hurt you?
spike: she wanted to know who the key was.
buffybot: oh, well, i can tell her, and then you'll
scene direction: buffybot turns to leave
spike: no!
scene direction: spike coughs as she turns back
spike: you can't ever. glory never finds out.
buffybot: why?
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: 'cause buffy ... the other, not so pleasant buffy ... anything happened to dawn, it'd destroy her. i couldn't live, her bein' in that much pain. let glory kill me first. nearly bloody did.
scene direction: she frowns slightly, then leans forward and kisses him softly on the lips. spike starts to kiss her back, frowns and pulls away.
scene direction: shot of her looking at him.
scene direction: spike stares at her in amazement.
scene direction: she turns to walk away.
spike: and my robot?
scene direction: buffy turns back
buffy: the robot is gone. the robot was gross and obscene.
scene direction: spike lowers his head
spike: it wasn't supposed to- buffy: don't. that ... thing, it ... it wasn't even real.
scene direction: she turns and takes a few more steps toward the door. spike sits with his head hanging. buffy pauses again but doesn't turn back to him.
buffy: what you did, for me, and dawn ... that was real.
scene direction: spike lifts his head to look at her. she turns to look at him over her shoulder.
buffy: i won't forget it.
scene direction: she walks out, closing the door behind her. spike stares after her.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producer: joss whedon 