scene change: *** episode begins ***
scene direction: buffy in the workout room punching something. giles is in the background, sitting and watching.
scene direction: buffy punches
buffy: spike!
scene direction: buffy more punches
buffy: spike wants me, how obscene is that?
giles: well, it is very strange. i can't imagine what he's thinking.
scene direction: giles stands
giles: uh, not, not that you're not, uh, attractive...
scene direction: buffy stops punching
buffy: i feel gross, you know, like, like, dirty.
scene direction: she resumes punching. we see part of the thing she's punching, which looks like a punching bag.
giles: that's ridiculous, you can't be responsible for what spike thinks or, feels.
scene direction: buffy stops punching
buffy: well, aren't i responsible? i mean, something about me had to make him feel that, right? something that made him say, 'woof, that's the one for me!' she resumes punching, very violently, and finishes by kneeing the target sharply.
giles: buffy, i think you should perhaps calm down.
xander: me too.
scene direction: we see that buffy's target is actually xander in a huge padded suit and fencing mask. it forces his arms to stand straight out at his sides, basically immobile. giles and buffy look at him with concern.
buffy: oh! puffy xander, uh, i'm sorry, i got ... guess i got carried away.
scene direction: buffy removes the mask, gives it to giles
buffy: are you okay?
xander: i'm alive. i can tell 'cause of the pain.
buffy: do you wanna sit down?
xander: i'm not that bendy.
scene direction: xander points at the wall
xander: i could lean.
giles: i'll get some ice.
scene direction: buffy helps puffy xander waddle over to the wall and lean against it.
buffy: here.
scene direction: xander loud sigh
buffy: comfy?
xander: oh, yeah. this leaning? this is the stuff.
buffy: that's my secret to attracting men. you know, it's simple really, you slap 'em around a bit, you torture 'em, you make their lives a living hell- xander: buff...
buffy: ...and sure, the nice guys, they'll run away, but every now and then you'll meet a real prince of a guy like spike who gets off on it.
xander: buffy ...
scene direction: xander jerks his head sideways
xander: stand me up.
scene direction: buffy helps him stand up straight. he loses his balance and slants toward buffy, who puts her hands on the puffy stomach to stabilize him.
xander: the problem is not you. don't do this to yourself, please.
buffy: it's just ... i just wanna know that there's gonna be another good one. one that i won't chase away.
xander: there will be. promise. he's out there, he could come along any minute.
buffy: yeah, and the minute after that i can terrify him with my alarming strength and remarkable self-involvement.
xander: what? i don't think you're like that.
buffy: maybe i could change. you know, i could, i could work harder. i could spend less time slaying, i could laugh at his jokes, i mean, men like that, right, the, the joke-laughing-at?
xander: or maybe you could just be buffy, he'll see your amazing heart, and he'll fall in love with you.
scene direction: buffy looks touched.
buffy: xander, that's ... aw!
scene direction: she puts her arms around puffy xander and rests her head on his big puffy chest.
xander: this is the day you choose to hug me?
scene direction: xander shakes head, sighs
xander: buffy?
buffy: mm?
xander: you ever think maybe the reason you haven't found a great relationship on the hellmouth is ... because it's a hellmouth? seems to me it's a pretty terrible place to try to build anything.
scene direction: buffy closes her eyes looking peaceful.
buffy: mm.
scene change: cut to sunnydale main street, night. a car comes around a corner and stops by the sidewalk. the passenger door opens and a young woman (april) gets out, closes the door. she is wearing a very short, very tight pink flowered dress. she has long straight dark hair and a perpetual smile. she leans in to talk to the driver of the car.
april: thank you for picking me up. i'm very grateful for the ride.
driver guy: you sure you want to get out here? i mean, this place is kinda ...
scene direction: driver guy looks around
driver guy: what are you looking for in sunnydale, anyway?
scene direction: april looks around with a smile
april: true love.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: fade in on the summers living room, day. joyce is wearing a black evening gown with large flowers on it. she is spinning around. buffy and dawn sit on the sofa watching.
buffy: i might like it more than the others. can you spin around again?
scene direction: joyce spins again. buffy smiles.
dawn: ooh, i'm not sure. once more.
scene direction: joyce spins again, smiles at them.
buffy: now could you go the other way?
scene direction: joyce starts to spin, stops and looks at them.
joyce: you're messing with me!
scene direction: dawn laughs.
buffy: we just wanted to see how many times we could get you to do it.
dawn: was that five, or four and a half?
scene direction: joyce holds out her arms
joyce: so is anyone gonna talk about my dress?
dawn: i like it.
joyce: you sure? i mean, it's not too mom-ish?
dawn: oh. that was why i liked it.
scene direction: dawn joyce looks disappointed
buffy: you're both crazy. it's not mom-ish at all.
scene direction: buffy joyce looks relieved
buffy: it's sexy. it screams, 'randy sex kitten, buy me one drink and i'll...'
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: oh, wait, that's not really good either.
scene direction: dawn shakes her head in agreement.
joyce: oh god. what time is it?
scene direction: buffy checks her watch
buffy: 4:23. you have lots of time until seven. vast acres of time in which you could plant crops. now tell me about this brian and what his intentions are.
dawn: maybe he's a gigolo. was his shirt all shiny?
scene direction: dawn she and buffy exchange an amused look
joyce: no! he works for a publishing house. he's a nice normal guy, okay?
buffy: i think i've heard of those.
joyce: he came to the gallery ... my first day back, when i was, you know, kinda shaky, starting over. and he asked a question about these antique cameos
scene direction: joyce sighs
joyce: and i was so lost, because ... carol had been doing the ordering while i was sick. well, it turned out that he didn't know anything about them either, so we had a lot to talk about.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: so what's the plan for tonight?
scene direction: joyce smiling
joyce: dinner and then a movie.
scene direction: joyce frowns
joyce: or maybe it was ... a movie and then dinner. which might be better, because ... you know, then we could talk about the movie.
scene direction: joyce buffy nods
joyce: or maybe a movie isn't a good idea at all, because, well, you know, you can't talk during, and, and then, you know, what's the point of any of it?
scene direction: joyce dawn shakes her head
joyce: oh, and about the restaurant. do you think ... that it should be one with candles, and romantic music, or is that pushing it? buffy, what do you think? should i, you know, try to make things romantic, or ... sorta let him set the pace?
buffy: oh, no.
scene direction: buffy stands, walks across to other end of the sofa
buffy: love doctor buffy is not in. i am not qualified to give dating advice. i've had exactly two boyfriends, and they both left. really left. left town left.
joyce: honey, you just had some bad luck.
dawn: well, you're going to that spring break party tonight. maybe you'll find someone there.
buffy: mm-hmm. or maybe brian has a son, and mom and i can go on some unspeakably awkward double dates.
joyce: oh god...
scene direction: joyce puts hands on her chest
joyce: brian. what time is it now?
scene direction: buffy checks watch
buffy: 4:24.
scene direction: joyce nervous
joyce: you sure the dress is okay?
dawn: hmm. spin again. real fast this time.
scene direction: joyce gives them an amused-scolding look.
scene change: cut to tara and anya walking along the uc sunnydale campus, day.
tara: willow's good at all that computer stuff, but me not so much. do you really understand all that?
anya: oh. well, at first it was confusing. just the idea of computers was like, 'whoa, i'm eleven hundred years old. i had trouble adjusting to the idea of lutherans.' tara: i go online sometimes, but ... everyone's spelling is really bad, and it's ... depressing.
anya: but you have to try online trading, it's great! the secret is avoiding the tech companies everyone was jumping on, and, and going with the smaller firms that supply the basic components.
tara: uh-huh.
anya: anyway, i took the money from working for giles, and i tripled it.
tara: tripled? like, first money, then money money money?
anya: yes. i'm thinking about buying something very expensive. maybe an antelope.
scene direction: april walks up to them with a big smile.
april: hi.
scene direction: anya and tara look at each other, then at april.
anya: hi.
april: i'm looking for warren. do you know where warren is? and if you do, could you tell me?
tara: um, i, i don't think we know a warren.
scene direction: tara anya shakes her head
april: well, all righty, no harm in asking. thanks!
scene direction: she walks off with a smile. the others watch her go up to a guy sitting on a bench, reading the newspaper.
april: hi, do you know warren? i need to find him.
bench guy: uh, sorry.
scene direction: tara and anya resume walking.
tara: you, you can do all this stuff with a regular computer?
scene direction: anya smiling
anya: i'll show you. you can also see the website i designed for the magic shop. huge photo of me.
scene direction: they walk off. in the background we see april walking along in the other direction.
scene change: cut to uc sunnydale dorm. a party is going on. music, decorations, lots of drinks, lots of people moving around, talking. we see ben standing by the punch bowl. pan across to buffy and xander dancing together.
xander: how you doing, having o' the fun?
buffy: you know, i am. dancing with you is way better than trying to hook up with some good-looking guy.
xander: i think i liked it better when you were kicking me in my puffy groin.
scene direction: pan further to find tara, willow, and anya standing together.
anya: i let them do that. dance together. that was me.
tara: very nice of you.
willow: a good deed.
anya: yes. i'm expecting a big karmic reward any second now.
scene direction: the song ends, buffy and xander stop dancing. xander bows.
buffy: thank you.
scene direction: xander walks off. buffy spots ben still standing by the punch bowl, talking to someone. the other person leaves and ben looks around, looking uncomfortable.
scene direction: buffy walks over while ben is looking the other way. she leans against a nearby pillar and pretends not to see him.
scene direction: ben looks around more, notices buffy.
ben: buffy.
scene direction: buffy pretends to notice him
buffy: ben! hey. i didn't even know you were here.
scene direction: buffy walks over to him
buffy: and again with the non-medical clothing.
ben: well, actually, these are orthopedic pants.
scene direction: ben buffy just looks at him
ben: man, that sounded so funny in my head.
scene direction: buffy laughs a little, then gives a louder fake laugh. ben looks surprised.
buffy: it's very, very funny. it's funny in my head too.
scene direction: ben nods
ben: you having a good time?
buffy: yeah, i am. i was dancing earlier, and you know, my friends are here, so ... but, i mean, not that it's all about me. are you enjoying yourself?
ben: i am now.
buffy: so, um ... do you ... maybe ... wanna dance?
scene direction: ben nervous
ben: i'm not really good. you know, rhythm.
scene direction: ben buffy looks disappointed
ben: uh, sure. i'd love to.
scene direction: ben buffy smiles
ben: let me just dump this.
scene direction: ben indicating his drink
ben: i'll be right back.
buffy: okay.
scene direction: ben walks off. buffy stands by herself, looking nervous.
scene change: cut to across the room. xander and anya are investigating the munchies.
anya: look at these tiny grain patties. they're woven. that's craftsmanship.
scene direction: anya eating chex mix
xander: they aren't hand-woven, you know.
anya: then how?
xander: well, it's a, a machine, and it's ... it sorta .. it presses.
scene direction: he gets distracted, looking across the room.
scene direction: shot of april entering.
xander: and there may be a mold of some sort ... who's that?
scene direction: anya looks.
scene direction: april looks around the room.
april: warren?
scene direction: shot of a guy in the crowd looking up nervously.
anya: oh, that girl. tara and i met her.
scene direction: we see the nervous boy behind anya and xander. as anya speaks, he quickly slips away.
anya: she speaks with a strange evenness and selects her words a shade too precisely.
xander: well, some of us like that kind of thing in a girl.
scene direction: anya smiles at him.
scene direction: april os
april: warren?
scene change: cut to the nervous guy (warren) moving quickly through the crowd, going over to another girl (katrina) who's sitting down.
katrina: hi, did you get me a drink?
warren: we gotta go, she's gonna see me.
scene direction: he grabs katrina's hand and pulls her up.
katrina: she who? what's up, warren?
warren: it doesn't matter. come on.
scene direction: he pulls her away.
scene change: cut to april approaching random partygoers.
april: is warren here?
scene direction: willow walks past april and approaches anya and xander.
willow: i thought you were getting the crunchies.
scene direction: willow taking some chex mix
anya: xander got hypnotized by the strange girl. i am remaining calm, however.
scene direction: shot of april looking through the crowd.
xander: uh-uh, no, i'm, i'm right with you. you don't know what you're talking about.
scene direction: xander quietly
xander: here she comes.
scene direction: april approaches them, still with her big smile.
april: i heard that warren was here. is warren here?
xander: um, warren who?
april: he's ... warren. and he's looking for me. he lost me.
scene direction: she walks away. tara approaches the other scoobies.
scene direction: april goes over to some other random people.
april: is warren here?
tara: it's that girl again. is she still looking for warren?
scene direction: tara the others nod
tara: weird, it's been like all day.
willow: there's something strange about her. she talks funny.
anya: some men find that appealing.
scene direction: she smiles at xander, who smiles back, although he's still occupied watching april.
scene direction: shot of april talking to still more random people.
april: have you guys seen warren?
scene direction: cut back to the scoobies.
tara: i just hope she finds him.
xander: somehow i don't think a girl that looks like that's gonna be lonely for too long.
willow: definitely not.
scene direction: willow grins and nods, then notices tara, who frowns and folds her arms.
willow: oh, not me, i, i was just saying, a pretty girl like that, there's always someone lurking around, looking for some action.
scene direction: tara looks mollified. willow looks a little embarrassed.
scene change: cut to buffy still waiting for ben. spike walks up next to her. she doesn't notice him. spike smirks, looks her up and down, and just stands there until buffy turns and notices him.
spike: small world.
scene direction: spike buffy glares
spike: oh dear. if looks could stake.
scene direction: spike buffy continues glaring
spike: you having fun, pet? you ... trolling for your next ex?
scene direction: spike looks around
spike: i gotta say, you can do better.
buffy: i told you, i wa- spike: thought i was gonna leave town? it's a free country. free party.
scene direction: buffy reaches for some snacks on the table, turns back to buffy with a smirk
buffy: if you want me to leave, you can put your hands on my hot, tight little body and make me.
scene direction: he eats a snack and smirks suggestively at buffy. she looks disgusted.
buffy: get away from me.
scene direction: spike starts to say something, stops, nods and walks away, still smirking.
scene direction: ben walks up to buffy.
ben: was that guy bothering you? should i, um, offer to get inappropriately violent or something?
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: no.
scene direction: ben smiles
ben: good, 'cause, honestly, i don't wanna.
scene direction: shot of spike moving into the crowd, looking over at buffy and ben chatting.
buffy: so, are you ready to dance?
ben: um, first...
scene direction: ben we see he's holding a small pink piece of paper
buffy: what's that?
ben: uh, yeah, my phone number.
scene direction: ben we see spike in the background watching
ben: i was gonna try to subtly work it into the conversation, but it didn't pan out, and i thought i should try to give it to you before you see me dance.
scene direction: he holds it out. buffy takes it.
ben: you know, in case you wanna get coffee.
buffy: thank you. um, i, i just, i-i think you should know that i ...
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i kind of have this bad history in which, you know, we go get coffee, and, well, it all ends with, with you leaving town, and you just got here and everything...
ben: apparently we'd be risking a tragic chain reaction, but ... i just really like ... coffee. i think coffee might be worth it. and i would like to get to know ... coffee better.
scene direction: buffy smiles.
buffy: then i'll call you.
scene change: cut to spike looking annoyed, walking off. he comes upon april talking to another girl.
april: have you seen warren?
girl: no, sorry.
scene direction: girl walks off
spike: and who are you, darlin'?
april: i'm april.
scene direction: spike looks over at buffy talking to ben. buffy looks over at spike, quickly looks back at ben.
april: i'm looking for my fella.
spike: maybe you just found him.
scene direction: april excited
april: really? where?
scene direction: spike grins, leans in and whispers in her ear. april looks angry.
april: oh!
scene direction: she grabs spike by the front of his shirt and lifts him over her head.
spike: hey! hey! hey!
scene direction: shot of buffy and ben looking over. everyone in the area is staring at april and spike.
scene direction: april still holding spike over her head
april: that would be wrong. you are not my boyfriend!
scene direction: she throws him through a window, which shatters. everyone stares.
scene direction: shot of buffy and ben staring.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: fade back in on the same scene. april and all the other partygoers watch as spike gets up, broken glass falling all around him. he stands outside the dorm and looks in through the now glassless window.
spike: bloody hell! you threw me through a window!
scene direction: shot of april just looking at him.
spike: what's that about?
scene direction: shot of buffy and ben moving closer to the action.
april: you do not make those suggestions to me. i have a boyfriend. warren is my boyfriend.
spike: you know what? my bleeding sympathies to warren.
scene direction: spike walks off. april turns away from the window. the onlookers move back a bit.
april: no one but warren can touch me.
scene direction: she begins to walk off. buffy intercepts her.
buffy: excuse me. hi. um, uh, maybe you and i could talk. you know, 'cause, throwing spike through a window,
scene direction: buffy pauses, grins
buffy: well, that's really good...
scene direction: buffy stops smiling
buffy: um, but, you know, generally speaking- april: do you know my boyfriend?
buffy: okay. i think you need to take a second and stop looking for your boyfriend.
scene direction: april grabs buffy by the upper arms and flings her backwards. she flies back several yards and lands on the floor with an expression of pain, grabbing her arm.
scene direction: april os
april: i have to find him.
scene direction: april walks over to where buffy is sitting up, clutching her arm in pain.
april: if i hurt you just now, i'm sorry. and i hope that your boyfriend will take good care of you.
scene direction: april walks off as ben, xander, willow, anya, and tara rush over to buffy. buffy pouts sadly as she watches april leave.
scene change: cut to a student lounge in the dorm. buffy is pacing, still holding her arm. the scoobies are sitting in various chairs.
buffy: ow. i don't know about you guys, but i've had it with super-strong little women who aren't me.
tara: well, at least she didn't do too much damage.
xander: are you kidding? double-glazed windows ain't cheap. and the jamb needs to be completely repaired.
scene direction: xander pauses
xander: oh dear god, i'm the grownup who sees the world through my job. i'm like my uncle dave the plumber. i must be shunned.
willow: okay.
buffy: so, what do you guys think she is? i mean, this may sound nuts, but i kinda got the impression that she was a- tara: robot.
scene direction: everyone nods in complete agreement.
xander: oh yeah, robot.
buffy: yeah, i was gonna say robot. what do you think she wants?
tara: warren, whoever that is.
xander: it's gotta be the guy that built her.
willow: it's an unusual name. there's hardly any except ... warren beatty and, you know, president harding. it-it's probably not either of them.
buffy: will, can you track down this guy with only a first name?
scene direction: willow nods
willow: given enough time. i can get a list of the sunnydale students named warren tonight, but ... then we'll have to call them or go to their dorms, so we probably can't start narrowing it down till tomorrow.
scene direction: buffy frowns.
anya: she could do a lot of damage by then.
xander: to who, spike? see how vigorously i don't care.
scene direction: xander buffy smiles
xander: she was looking for this warren, but it didn't sound like she wanted to hurt him. she said he's her boyfriend.
willow: i agree. i'm not sure this is a code red. hey, is there a code pink? we need more codes.
scene direction: willow tara smiles at her
buffy: okay. we'll track down warren tomorrow. tonight i better go rescue giles. he's been watching dawn while my mom's out on her date, and i have a feeling there's only so much he can take.
tara: oh, giles and dawnie? i bet they ended up having a blast.
scene change: cut to giles and buffy standing in the summers foyer, by the open door.
giles: dear god, buffy, there's only so much i can take. we're going to have to change the system. a fourteen-year-old's too old to be babysat, and it's not fair on her.
scene direction: buffy nods, grins
buffy: what'd she make you do?
giles: um, well, we listened to aggressively cheerful music sung by people chosen for their ability to dance ... then we ate cookie dough and talked about boys.
scene direction: buffy laughs
buffy: i'm sorry. i'm very very sorry, but if it makes you feel any better, my 'fun time buffy party night' involved watching a robot throw spike through a window,
scene direction: buffy giles looks interested
buffy: so if you wanna trade...
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: no ... wait ... i wouldn't give that memory up for anything.
giles: a robot? sounds interesting.
buffy: we're gonna work on it in the morning. i mean, unless you wanna stay for a while, and then you and i could- joyce appears behind giles, entering the house with a big smile.
joyce: who wants to hear everything?
buffy: ...listen to my mom talk about boys.
scene direction: giles quickly
giles: right, must go. see you tomorrow. bye joyce.
scene direction: giles leaves
joyce: bye rupert.
scene direction: joyce closes the door behind giles, turns and gives buffy a big smile.
joyce: gosh, i'd forgotten how much fun dating can be.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: i don't know. i was standing right here. i didn't see prince charming. i didn't even see a goodnight kiss.
scene direction: joyce smiles, walks past buffy to put her purse down.
buffy: it all looked pretty tame to me.
joyce: well, i suppose by your standards it could seem pretty ...
scene direction: joyce pauses
joyce: oh dear.
buffy: what?
joyce: i left my bra in his car.
scene direction: buffy looks shocked and horrified.
buffy: mother!
joyce: i'm joking.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: good god, that's horrible. don't do that.
joyce: i left it in the restaurant.
scene direction: buffy puts her hands over her ears and starts running up the stairs.
buffy: no more! no more! no more!
scene direction: joyce yelling up the stairs at her
joyce: on the dessert cart!
scene direction: buffy os, faintly
buffy: i can't hear you!
scene change: cut to exterior aerial shot of sunnydale, night. sound of knocking.
scene change: cut to april standing on the front porch of a house. the porch light comes on. a man opens the door, looking sleepy.
sleepy guy: yeah? what?
scene direction: april big smile
april: hi! does warren live here?
sleepy guy: what the hell - what are you doing, it's 3:30!
april: yes, it is! does warren live here?
scene direction: the guy gives her an angry look, slams the door in her face.
april: okay then. bye.
scene direction: she walks down the steps, across the lawn, and over to the next house. knocks on that door.
scene change: cut to magic shop, day. buffy and the scoobies sit around the table. giles stands next to it. willow is using her computer (ibook).
giles: and you're certain she was a robot?
buffy: absolutely.
tara: well, she practically had 'genuine molded plastic' stamped on her ass.
scene direction: giles and willow give her looks.
tara: just ... tryin' a little spicy talk.
scene direction: tara willow smiles
anya: she was looking for someone named warren.
buffy: willow's already checked the sunnydale enrollment.
willow: and got nothin'. i found one warren, but he moved out of the country a year ago. i'm checking nearby schools.
xander: whoever he is, he knows his stuff. that girl, well...
scene direction: xander buffy looks at him
xander: that was a nice-lookin' girl.
scene direction: tara gives xander a dubious look.
anya: it's okay for him to say that, 'cause i know that he really loves me only.
scene direction: xander leans over to take anya's hand. buffy watches this a little sadly.
scene direction: giles os
giles: is there something the rest of us could be doing?
xander: what can we do?
tara: oh, do you have any books on robots?
giles: oh, yes, dozens. there's an enormous amount of research we should do before - no, i'm lying. i haven't got squat, i just like to see xander squirm.
scene direction: xander fake laugh
xander: funny. charming and funny.
willow: hey! i think i found him. a warren mears. he went to sunnydale high with us for a semester, and then he went to the tech college over in dutton. i've got a local address where his folks still live.
scene direction: willow writing it down
tara: he's probably home for spring break.
buffy: well, i'll go talk to him.
scene direction: buffy takes the paper from willow
giles: no no no no no, wait, we don't know what you're walking into.
scene direction: giles looks behind him, notices a customer standing by the counter
giles: uh, we have no idea what his motive is for building this thing.
scene direction: giles stands
tara: um ... don't you think se's just...
scene direction: tara makes insinuating face
willow: yeah ... she's just sort of a...
scene direction: willow makes the same face
xander: she's a sexbot.
scene direction: xander to giles
xander: i mean, what guy doesn't dream about that?
scene direction: giles walks off to help the customer.
scene direction: xander wistfully
xander: beautiful girl with ... no other thought but to please you ... willing to do anything...
scene direction: he looks up. shots of the four girls staring at him. xander laughs nervously.
xander: too many girls. i miss oz. he'd get it. he wouldn't say anything, but...
scene direction: xander clears throat
xander: he'd get it.
scene direction: xander willow turns her attention back to the computer
anya: why would anyone do that if they could have a real live person?
willow: maybe he couldn't. find a real person.
buffy: oh, come on. the guy's just a big wedge of sleaze, don't make excuses for him.
scene direction: giles finishes helping the customer and returns to sit with them.
willow: i'm not, i'm just saying, people get lonely, and maybe having someone around, even someone you made up ... maybe it's easier.
scene direction: shot of buffy looking pensive.
tara: but it's so weird. i mean, everyone wants a nice normal person to share with, but this guy, if he couldn't find that, i guess it's ... kinda sad.
scene direction: shot of buffy staring at her hands.
scene change: cut to buffy walking into the workout room, looking at the piece of paper with ben's phone number on it. she sighs, picks up the phone, puts it down, picks it up again.
scene change: cut to glory's apartment. we see glory from the chest up, bare shoulders. she's sweaty and gasping, breathing rhythmically. the phone begins to ring. glory morphs into ben. he's panting too. he picks up the phone.
scene direction: ben breathlessly
ben: hello?
scene direction: cut back to workout room.
buffy: hey. ben, it, it's buffy. is this a bad time? i know it's kinda early.
scene direction: cut back to glory's apartment.
ben: no, i just ... i just got in is all. night shift at the hospital. i'm glad you called.
scene direction: cut back to workout room.
buffy: well, i found your number in my pocket, and, you know, figured i'd pick up the phone a couple of times, and then hang up, and then finally call, and see if maybe you wanted to get that cup of coffee, or...
scene direction: cut back to glory's apartment. we still see ben only from the shoulders up.
ben: yeah, yes. coffee would be great. ... tomorrow night? sure. bye.
scene direction: he hangs up, smiling. he puts his hands on his hips, frowns, looks down.
scene direction: long shot of ben standing in the middle of the apartment wearing a short strapless red dress. he sighs.
scene direction: ben annoyed
ben: fine.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of a house, day.
scene change: cut to inside. warren is stuffing piles of clothing into a bag. katrina watches.
katrina: but we just got here. if you don't wanna be here, why didn't we just stay in dutton? or we could have gone to my sister's.
scene direction: warren walks around the room gathering up more stuff
warren: katrina, i don't wanna hear about your sister's place again. pack your stuff now.
katrina: why the rush? it's real early. are we even gonna say goodbye to your mom?
scene direction: warren packing
warren: uh, you can call her.
katrina: warren. is something going on you don't want me to see?
warren: katrina, um, if you don't wanna pack, that's fine. we can buy new stuff. now let's just go!
scene direction: he grabs the bag and katrina's hand, and leads her to the door.
scene direction: warren opens the door to discover buffy, standing on the step with her fist upraised to knock. she frowns in surprise.
scene direction: buffy to warren
buffy: i have to talk to you.
katrina: who's this?
scene direction: warren to buffy
warren: is this about her?
buffy: yes.
katrina: her who? warren, something's going on here. strange girls...
warren: katrina, please be quiet, okay, this is important. wait in the kitchen.
katrina: and i'm not important? warren, just tell her to go away.
scene direction: warren looks at buffy
warren: i can't.
katrina: you're keeping secrets from me. other girls, and who knows what else?
warren: trina, shut up.
katrina: that's it. forget it, warren. i'm gone.
scene direction: she walks out past buffy and away.
warren: no, katrina! ahhh...
scene direction: buffy shrugs, walks inside.
buffy: my name is buffy summers. we were at sunnydale high together. do you know who i am?
warren: yes, i know. um, april, did she hurt someone?
buffy: not yet.
scene direction: buffy thinks
buffy: well, no one that matters.
warren: she's looking for me. you know, uh, she followed me here.
buffy: okay, kind of figured that out.
warren: no, no, there's more. uh, there's something you need to know about her.
buffy: i know.
warren: no, wait, this is important.
buffy: believe me, i, i worked it out.
warren: no, this is something, uh, that you can't possibly know.
scene direction: buffy folds her arms and nods to him to continue.
scene direction: zoom in dramatically on warren taking a deep breath.
warren: she's a robot.
scene direction: buffy looks at him as if expecting more.
buffy: uh-huh.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: fade in on the magic shop. willow, dawn, tara, and xander are walking from the back of the store toward the front.
dawn: a robot? really? was it ted? 'cause i always said there could have been more than one of him.
willow: nope, whole new robot. this one was a girl.
xander: buffy's busy tracking down the guy that made her,
scene direction: xander puts hand on the doorknob
xander: so i'll drop you off at school, and if she's not finished, then- spike:
scene direction: xander os
xander: coming through! coming through.
scene direction: as xander opens the door, spike runs in, holding a blanket over himself. the blanket is on fire. the others jump back. we see giles and anya in the background. spike drops the blanket on the floor and stomps out the fire.
spike: fire! fire!
scene direction: the others stare at him. giles comes forward. we see anya in the background. we can see that spike still has a bunch of small cuts on his face and neck from being thrown through the window.
spike: hello, all. what's going on then?
giles: spike, you're not welcome here.
willow: yeah, and by the way, we're working on a way to de-invite you from here.
scene direction: willow spike looks surprised
willow: even if it is a public place.
xander: nah, forget it. letting him in is good, 'cause then we get to toss him out.
anya: ooh, can we throw him out the window like the robot did? 'cause that was neat.
spike: robot? that's what she was?
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: knew something wasn't right.
scene direction: spike looks over at dawn, who's standing behind tara
spike: hey. someone's glad to see me, aren't you, little bit?
dawn: stay away from me.
tara: i think you better go.
scene direction: tara steps in front of dawn and folds her arms
spike: okay, now, i was afraid of this. misrepresentations, misunderstandings, slurs and allegations. i don't know what buffy told you, but the thing is, the slayer and i worked together, side by side, to get rid of dru. who was up to no good. and i don't mind telling you- giles:
scene direction: spike takes off his glasses, moves closer to spike
spike: spike ... listen to me.
spike: it's just ... i'm trying to explain. she might have said some things that sounded like i expressed some kind of feeling- giles shoves spike backward. he stumbles into a bookshelf. giles walks slowly up to him, glaring angrily.
scene direction: giles softly
giles: we are not your friends. we are not your way to buffy.
scene direction: giles spike stares at him
giles: there is no way to buffy.
scene direction: giles leans over, picks up the blanket and slams it into spike's chest. he leans in close and looks spike in the eye.
giles: clear out of here. and spike, this thing ... get over it.
scene direction: spike small smile
spike: i don't know what you mean.
giles: yes, you do. move the hell on.
scene direction: the others just watch.
scene direction: spike takes a deep breath as if he's going to say something. giles gives him a steely glare. spike puts the blanket over his head and exits.
scene change: cut to the coffee shop on sunnydale's main street, day. april walks up to a group of four young men sitting at a table.
april: i'm looking for my boyfriend warren.
coffee guy 1: what?
april: he comes from here and i need him. but ... it's confusing, and i've already walked a really long way. i'm sure he's nearby.
coffee guy 1: oh, warren! you're looking for warren?
april: yes! do you know him? do you know where he is?
coffee guy 1: man, let me think.
april: please think.
coffee guy 1: geez, this is too bad, you, you just missed him.
scene direction: april pouts
april: yes? where did he go?
coffee guy 1: warren? uh, he headed out.
scene direction: coffee guy 1 points
coffee guy 1: uh, that way. hurry, you might catch him.
scene direction: april relieved sigh
april: oh, thank you. i was getting very tired. thank you.
scene direction: she hurries off. the guys watch her go, then look at coffee guy 1.
coffee guy 2: who's warren?
coffee guy 1: hell if i know.
scene direction: they all laugh.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of warren's house, day.
buffy voiceover: so you have girl troubles.
scene change: cut to inside. buffy sits on the sofa while warren paces.
buffy: they're not talking to you, you're not gettin' dates ... you start thinking, 'hey, this isn't fair.' warren: yeah, i mean, i felt like i deserved to have someone. you know, i mean, everyone deserves to have someone.
buffy: so naturally you turned to manufacturing.
warren: kinda.
buffy: and how long did it take to build yourself that little toy?
warren: oh, no, she's not a toy. i mean, i know what you're thinking, but she's more than that.
buffy: i'm sure she has many exciting labor-saving attachments.
warren: no, i made her to love me.
scene change: cut to april walking down the street, day.
warren voiceover: i mean, she cares about what i care about, and she wants to be with me. she listens to me and supports me.
scene direction: cut back to warren's house.
warren: i didn't make a toy. i made a girlfriend.
buffy: a girlfriend. are you saying ... are you in love with her?
warren: i really thought i would be.
scene change: cut to april walking down more streets, looking around.
warren voiceover: i mean, she's perfect. i don't know, i ... i guess it was too easy. and predictable.
scene direction: cut back to warren's house.
warren: you know, she got boring.
scene direction: warren buffy rolls her eyes
warren: she was exactly what i wanted, and i didn't want her.
scene direction: warren laughs crazily
warren: i thought i was going crazy.
buffy: really? you?
warren: then something happened.
scene direction: warren sits next to her
warren: katrina was in my engineering seminar, and she was really funny and cool. you know, she was always givin' me a hard time, real ... unpredictable. she builds these little model monorails that run with magnets, and ...
scene direction: warren pauses, looks at buffy
warren: anyway.
scene direction: warren shrugs
warren: i fell in love with katrina.
buffy: swell. romance and magnetic trains. but first you decided to take april out of the box...
scene change: cut to april still walking.
buffy voiceover: ...play with her for five minutes, and then what? you got bored, decided to dump her, tell her to go away?
scene direction: cut back to the house.
warren: kinda.
buffy: and she got mad. she didn't go, huh?
warren: okay, i didn't really dump her, as much as i, uh, went out, and, uh, didn't come back.
scene direction: warren buffy stares
warren: i left her, i ... left her in my dorm room.
scene direction: buffy angry
buffy: you left her in your dorm room?!
warren: well, i figured i could just kinda get away until her batteries gave out. which should have been days ago.
buffy: did you even tell her? i mean, did you even give her a chance to fix what was wrong?
warren: i didn't need to fix anything. i mean, her batteries were supposed to run down. really, they should be completely dead by now.
buffy: so why aren't they?
warren: i don't, i don't know. i mean, maybe ... uh, she must be recharging them somehow.
buffy: warren, this is important. is she dangerous?
warren: she's only programmed to be in love.
buffy: then she's dangerous. do you have any idea how to find her?
warren: well, she's looking for me, so my guess is she's probably pretty close.
scene change: cut to katrina walking along quickly, approaching a children's playground. april intercepts her.
april: hi!
scene direction: katrina stares, then makes a disgusted noise and tries to walk around april. april moves to block her path.
april: do you know where warren is? i need to get to warren.
katrina: this is getting insane, how many of you are there?
april: there's only me. april.
katrina: april. fine.
scene direction: katrina angrily
katrina: listen up, april. warren is my boyfriend. mine. and you others probably oughta figure that out.
scene direction: april grabs katrina by the upper arm.
katrina: ow. ow! let go!
scene direction: katrina struggles but april holds on
april: don't go. you have to stay and tell the truth.
scene direction: april pulls katrina toward her, turns her around and wraps her arms around katrina, pinning her arms to her sides. april locks her hands together over katrina's stomach and squeezes. katrina gasps for air.
april: you're lying. he cannot be your boyfriend. say that he's my boyfriend.
scene direction: katrina gasping
katrina: i can't ... i can't breathe. let go!
april: you have to stop lying.
scene direction: katrina continues gasping and choking.
scene change: cut to a box. a pile of photos of buffy flies into view and lands in the box. pan up to find spike dismantling his buffy shrine, throwing the pictures into the box with angry motions. he grabs the blonde wig off of the mannequin and tosses it, along with buffy's blue cashmere sweater, into the box.
spike: bloody right, i'll move on.
scene change: cut to buffy and warren walking along the street.
scene direction: warren yelling
warren: april! april, are you there?
scene direction: warren normal voice
warren: if the batteries are still working and she hears my voice, then ... she'll answer.
buffy: she's voice-activated?
warren: well, i made it so that if she heard me and she didn't answer, it causes this kind of feedback.
buffy: wait, if you call her and she doesn't answer, it hurts her?
scene direction: buffy he looks embarrassed
buffy: you're one creepy little dweeb, warren.
scene direction: warren yells
warren: april!
scene direction: close shot of april's face.
april: warren!
scene direction: buffy and warren stop walking, look shocked.
warren: april.
scene direction: we see april standing there holding katrina by the neck. katrina's feet are not touching the ground and she appears to be unconscious.
april: where have you been? i couldn't find you, and this girl kept lying to me, and ... then she went to sleep.
scene direction: buffy and warren stare in dismay.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: fade back in on the same scene.
warren: april, what did you do?
scene direction: april looks at katrina, back at warren
april: please don't be angry, warren. i'm trying very hard to make you happy.
buffy: april. i want you to put the girl down.
april: warren? what should i do?
scene direction: warren hesitates.
scene direction: buffy to warren
buffy: talk to her!
warren: pu-put her down!
april: okay.
warren: this is buffy. give katrina to buffy.
scene direction: april lowers katrina. buffy and warren carry katrina to a nearby bench and lie her down.
april: is she broken?
scene direction: buffy feels katrina's neck for a pulse.
buffy: she's alive.
scene direction: warren looks relieved, moves toward april.
april: warren, honey, what's going on? why did you go away? is it a game?
warren: no. no, this isn't a game.
april: did i do something wrong?
scene direction: april buffy watches, still sitting on the bench holding katrina's head
april: i waited a long time and you never came back. a long time. i made you five sweaters.
warren: that's great, you could go back and get them. so you could wait there, and- buffy: warren!
scene direction: warren he looks back at her
warren: you have to tell her. and do it right.
scene direction: warren looks nervously at april.
april: what is she saying, warren? what do you need to tell me?
scene direction: warren stammers
warren: april, i made a mistake.
scene direction: april laughs
april: you can't make mistakes.
warren: no, i did.
scene change: cut to image of warren from april's point of view. it's like a blue computer screen with warren's face in a circle in the middle.
scene direction: along the top left is a list labeled 'directives.' the lists consists of 'mk warren hpy.fld', 'locate_warren.fld', and 'protect warren.fld'.
scene direction: along the top right is another list under the heading 'locate warren' with a line connecting 'locate_warren.fld' on the left to the list on the right. the right-hand list reads - favorite_places.gfd, phne #'s.gfd, scent.gfd, questions.gfd, gps tracking.gfd, clues.gfd.
scene direction: at the lower left are the words 'recognition module.' as warren talks, underneath the heading 'recognition module' appears the word 'warren' and then 'boyfriend.' the 'locate warren' list disappears and is replaced by a list connected to the 'mk warren hpy' directive - kissing_01.gfd, kissing_02.gfd, lstn sympthtc.gfd, gv_hm_prsnts.gfd, sex01.gfd, sex02.gfd, sex03.gfd, sex04.gfd, praise.gfd, neckrubs.gfd, fetish_01.gfd, fetish_02.gfd, fetish_03.gfd, positions01.gfd, positions02.gfd, positions03.gfd, positions04.gfd, positions05.gfd, positions06.gfd.
scene direction: the list of positions continues off the bottom of the screen. meanwhile, underneath 'warren' and 'boyfriend' appear other identifiers - really smart, handsome, best lover, snappy dresser, good dancer.
scene direction: all of this appears while warren is talking.
scene direction: warren in computer display
warren: i thought that i made you everything that i wanted, but it wasn't really what i wanted.
scene change: cut to shot of april reacting.
scene direction: cut back to the display.
scene direction: warren in computer display
warren: i'm sorry, bu-but it's over.
scene direction: cut back to april smiling.
april: but ... i can be whatever you want. i love you. i'll do whatever you want. would you like a neckrub?
scene direction: she moves forward reaching for warren's neck. he fends her off.
warren: no, hey, no. see, i - i know that you love me, but the truth is, i can't love you.
scene direction: warren april frowns
warren: i mean, it's not your fault, but...
scene direction: cut back to the computer display.
warren: i don't love you.
scene direction: the display goes blurry for a moment, then reappears with the 'locate warren' list. a red dot appears on the image of warren's face, and at the bottom of the screen, in red letters, the words combat mode enabled. the display turns green and a shrill alarm begins to sound. the image of warren's face looks fearful.
warren: i love her!
scene direction: he quickly moves out of the way and the image focuses on buffy behind him, sitting on the bench. the alarm continues. the red dot is now centered on buffy's chest.
scene change: cut to april. she growls.
buffy: she growls? you made her so she growls?
warren: well...
scene direction: april grabs buffy and flings her away. she lands on some grass, gets up as april approaches.
scene direction: april goes over to a see-saw and lifts one end of it. she brings her arm down on the middle of the board so it snaps in half. buffy looks alarmed. april swings the piece of wood at buffy, who grabs it. they grapple. buffy kicks april in the stomach and she stumbles back, grabbing the bench to steady herself. we see katrina still lying on the bench and warren in the background. buffy swings the piece of wood but april gets out of the way and it slams down on the bench, awaking katrina, who sits up. buffy swings again and hits april in the stomach, tearing away her dress and exposing machinery in her stomach.
katrina: what's going on?
warren: no, no, trina- shot of april's inner workings sparking.
warren: get away.
scene direction: katrina gets up and backs away from the fight, toward warren.
scene direction: buffy swings the wood at april again and april grabs it, pulls it out of buffy's hands, tosses it away and punches buffy. buffy flies backward and lands on her back, turns it into a backflip and gets up. she ducks a punch and lands another one on april.
scene direction: katrina clutching her throat
katrina: what is ... what ... that's a robot!
scene direction: katrina sound of fighting continues
scene direction: warren watching the fight
warren: she wasn't just for sex.
katrina: is that ... is that your ex-girlfriend?
scene direction: warren looks at her
warren: i...
katrina: no, get the hell away from me!
scene direction: she starts to run off. warren runs after her.
warren: no, no, no, trina, no, trina, wait...
scene direction: buffy and april continue exchanging punches and head-butts. buffy kicks april, who falls down in the sand next to a swing set. buffy grabs the chains holding a swing up and uses them to hold her up while she kicks april in the face, then hits her with the swing itself. april grabs buffy by the throat and lifts her off the ground as buffy struggles and gasps for air.
april: you took my man. i'm going to kill you. i'm going to ...
scene direction: april pauses
april: i can't ... can't crush! so ... tired.
scene direction: she lets go of buffy, who coughs and gasps as april stares at her own hand.
scene direction: april anxious
april: warren? where are you? what's happening to me?
scene direction: her hand slowly drops to her side. there's a sound like machinery powering down. buffy stares.
scene change: cut to a little later. pan across the playground to find buffy and april sitting on the swings side by side. april is leaning against the chain as it's the only thing holding her up.
buffy: can you cry? sometimes i feel better when i cry. but ... there might be rust issues.
april: crying is blackmail. good girlfriends don't cry.
buffy: oh.
april: i rechecked everything. i did everything i was supposed to do. i was a good girlfriend.
buffy: i'm sure you were.
april: i'm only supposed to love him. if i can't do that, what am i for? what do i exist for?
buffy: i don't know.
scene direction: buffy shakes head
buffy: it isn't fair. he wasn't fair to you.
scene direction: april looks around, moving only her eyes.
april: it's getting dark.
scene direction: buffy looks around too. it looks as sunny as ever.
april: it's so early to be dark.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: yeah.
april: what if he comes back and he can't find me in the dark?
buffy: i'm here. i'll make sure that he finds you.
scene direction: april smiles
april: maybe this is a girlfriend test. if i wait here patiently this time, he'll come back.
buffy: i'm sure he will. and he'll ... he'll tell you how sorry he is.
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: you know, he told me ... how proud he was of you and ... how impressed he was with how much you loved him and how you tried to help him.
scene direction: buffy april smiles happily
buffy: he didn't mean to hurt you.
april: he's going to take me home, and things will be right again.
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: it'll be fine.
scene direction: april still smiling
april: when things are sad ... you just have to be patient.
scene direction: april her speech begins to slow
april: because ... because every ... cloud has a silver lining. and ... when life ... gives you lemons ... make ... lemonade.
buffy: clouds and lemonade, huh?
april: yes. and ... and ...
scene direction: april her voice gets deeper like a tape running too slow
april: things are ... always ... darkest ... before...
scene direction: she stops, frozen with a small smile on her face. her eyes stay open. buffy looks at her with a frown, then looks down pensively. the camera pulls up and out to a wide aerial shot as buffy turns away, then turns back, still sitting on the swing next to april.
scene change: cut to xander fixing the window in the dorm, wearing a toolbelt. he pushes some small chips of wood underneath the bottom of the new window.
xander: see, you construct the wood jamb and frame the glass into it, and that's what you set into the opening.
scene direction: we see buffy sitting nearby, watching.
buffy: yeah?
xander: one of the cool things about that, you see is, uh, the jamb can be shimmed to be square, even if the opening isn't.
buffy: shimmed? is that even a real word? do you have any idea what you're talking about?
xander: yeah, i do.
scene direction: xander smiles
xander: scary, isn't it? i think i've actually turned into someone you want around after a crazed robot attack.
buffy: and if you ever start your own business, you have your slogan right there.
scene direction: buffy pauses, looks thoughtful
buffy: and she wasn't crazed.
scene direction: xander skeptical
xander: yeah?)
buffy: she devoted everything to making this one person happy. and then it was like, with him gone, there was just ... no reason for her to exist any more.
xander: robots are the strangest people.
buffy: no ... people are the strangest people.
scene direction: buffy she looks down as xander continues working
buffy: i mean, look at me obsessing about being with someone. it's like ... i don't need a guy right now. i need me. i need to get comfortable being alone with buffy.
xander: well, i'll say this, she's a pretty cool person to be alone with.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: thank you.
scene direction: xander turns back to the window again. buffy picks up the piece of paper with ben's phone number on it, looks at it, bites her lip.
scene change: cut to a moment later. pan across xander still working on the window. pan over to buffy talking into a pay phone.
buffy: hi, it's buffy. um, i hope this is your machine, there, there wasn't a message. anyway, um, about coffee. i, um ... i just ... i don't think this is the best time for me to be ... drinking...
scene change: cut to glory's apartment. we see the answering machine sitting there on the table.
scene direction: buffy on machine
buffy: ...coffee. um, i'm sorry. and, um, bye.
scene direction: pan up to glory, wearing a sparkly gold dress, with her arms crossed over her chest, listening.
glory: what the hell?
scene direction: we see jinx behind her.
jinx: if i may, your inconceivableness, it sounds to these humble ears like our ben tried to make a date with the slayer.
scene direction: glory confused
glory: a date with the slayer? no. no.
scene direction: glory shakes her head firmly
glory: no, no, no. he is planning something, he's working against me.
scene direction: jinx shrugs.
scene direction: glory frowns, looks from him to the answering machine and back again.
scene direction: glory pouting
glory: she turned us down?
scene change: cut to warren's house. warren is talking on the cordless phone, moving around, packing.
warren: trina, no, wait, listen, listen, i'm so sorry. i guess i asked- no, no, just give me a chance to explain, i ... yes! no, but she - no, no, listen, listen, i'll do anything, just, no, no, don't hang up!
scene direction: he sighs, goes to hang up the phone. turns around and gasps in shock as he sees spike standing behind him, holding the box full of buffy shrine stuff.
warren: how, how'd you get in here?
spike: your mum let me in.
scene direction: spike walks closer
spike: i'm placing an order.
warren: oh, no, no, i'm not making any more girls.
spike: sure you are.
scene direction: spike shoves the box into warren's hands
spike: here's your specs.
scene direction: shot of the box full of buffy photos and the buffy wig.
scene direction: warren stares at spike.
spike: you're gonna make her real good for me.
scene direction: spike smiles
scene change: cut to buffy entering her home.
scene direction: buffy calling
buffy: hey, mom.
scene direction: she turns, sees some flowers on the table beside the door.
buffy: ooh.
scene direction: she opens the card that came with the flowers. shot of the card, which reads 'thank you for a lovely evening. see you soon? brian'.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: still a couple of guys gettin' it right.
scene direction: she turns to call up the stairs, putting down her jacket.
scene direction: buffy calls
buffy: hey. flower-gettin' lady. want me to pick dawn up from school?
scene direction: in the background, on the living room sofa, we can see someone or something, but it's out of focus; the focus is on buffy in the foreground.
scene direction: buffy frowns, looks down the hall toward the kitchen.
buffy: mom?
scene direction: she turns and looks in the living room.
buffy: what are you doing?
scene direction: she walks into the living room, stops.
scene direction: shot of joyce lying on the sofa. her eyes are open, staring sightlessly at the ceiling. one arm hangs loosely over the edge of the sofa. she does not move or blink.
scene direction: buffy quieter
buffy: mom?
scene direction: buffy even quieter
buffy: mom?
scene direction: buffy very quietly
buffy: mommy?
scene direction: blackout.
executive producer: joss whedon 