scene change: *** episode begins ***
scene direction: loud rock music. fade in on a large sign reading 'grand opening' with a piece of paper stuck in between the words reading 're' (as in, grand re-opening). pan across to a neon sign holding the bronze's new logo - the word bronze in pink in a futuristic script.
scene change: cut to inside the bronze, which has been extensively remodeled following its demolition by olaf in 'triangle.' the basic layout is the same but the fixtures and furniture have a new style, less gothic/industrial and more modern. it is filled with people dancing, talking, etc. we can see willow/tara and xander/anya dancing. the group summercamp is onstage performing their song 'play it by ear.'
scene direction: i'm amused by the overwhelming choices
scene direction: i guess the hardest part is knowing when to stop
scene direction: i'm confused and i think i'm hearing voices
scene direction: things are happening so fast
scene direction: do i save the best for last?
scene direction: closer shot of xander and anya dancing. pan across them to willow and tara dancing. all smiling. pan over to buffy sitting by a low round table by herself, watching the dancers, looking pensive.
scene direction: spike os
spike: bleedin' crime, is what it is.
scene direction: buffy looks up as spike sits in the chair beside her. instead of his usual attire he wears khaki pants, a blue/gray button-down shirt open over a black t-shirt, and a shiny brown leather jacket.
spike: jackin' up the bar price to pay for fixin' up this sinkhole. not my fault insurance doesn't cover act of troll.
buffy: gee, maybe it's time you found a new place to patronize.
scene direction: spike sits back
spike: i've half a mind to! especially since the flowering onion got remodeled off the sodding menu.
scene direction: spike leans forward
spike: 's the only thing this place had going for it.
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: what are you doing?
scene direction: spike frowns
spike: wha, what do you mean what am ... i ...
buffy: here? at this table? talking to me. like we're some kind of talking buddies.
spike: well, i saw you ... sitting here alone. thought, i don't know, you could, maybe do with a bit of, uh, you know, company.
scene direction: buffy raises her eyebrows at him. spike frowns.
spike: suit yourself!
scene direction: he gets up. focus on buffy looking back over at the dance floor.
scene direction: spike os
spike: although...
scene direction: he sits back down as buffy rolls her eyes.
spike: it's just, we took on that glory chippie together, i was right there with you, fightin' the fight.
buffy: actually, you were sleeping the sleep of the knocked unconscious.
spike: still, points for intent.
scene direction: spike buffy looks doubtful
spike: you'd think that would be enough to cut me a sliver of slack. earn a little consideration, respect.
scene direction: xander os
xander: hey, uh, evil dead, you're in my seat.
scene direction: we see xander and anya standing behind spike. he turns his head to look at them, sighs.
spike: bugger it.
scene direction: he reaches for his beer bottle, knocks it over accidentally, grabs it and gets up. buffy watches him go in some confusion as xander and anya sit.
anya: xander, i think you may have hurt his feelings.
xander: and you should never hurt the feelings of a brutal killer.
scene direction: xander ponders
xander: you know, that's, uh, that's actually some pretty good advice.
scene direction: buffy doesn't reply. willow and tara come over and sit.
xander: so, who's up for some more liquid refreshments? i'm buying, for i am payday man.
scene direction: willow opening a bottle of aspirin
willow: i could use a water.
scene direction: xander raises a hand dismissively
xander: water poses no challenge for payday man, for i have...
scene direction: xander pauses, looks dismayed
scene direction: shot of a small tray lying on the table, with just a few coins on it.
scene direction: xander os
xander: hey, where's my change?
scene direction: buffy looks at the tray, scowls, glances over at the bar. xander looks too.
scene direction: shot of spike at the bar, buying another beer.
xander: spike, you diabolical fiend.
scene direction: xander gets up and walks toward spike. buffy looks at tara comforting willow.
buffy: poor will. still getting those headaches?
willow: fewer and further between, but...yep, they're still exercising their visitation rights.
tara: honey, in case you didn't hear me the first six thousand times, no more teleportation spells.
willow: well, it's just we have squat in the way of glory-fighting arsenal, and ... another run-in with her and my headaches and nosebleeds are gonna be the least of our problems.
buffy: you know what? this is the first r-'n'-r i've had in weeks. how about we go one night without saying the name glory.
scene direction: everyone nods.
tara: i'm down with that. let's just call 'she who will not be named' another name. let's just call her-
buffy: ben!
scene direction: shot of ben sitting on a sofa across the room, with another guy.
scene direction: tara os
tara: for example.
buffy: i'll be right back.
scene direction: buffy gets up and the other three girls watch her walk over to ben.
buffy: ben! hey!
ben: buffy, hi.
buffy: i barely recognized you without your hospital scrubs.
scene direction: the guy next to ben gets up and leaves, and buffy sits in his place.
ben: oh, you'd be surprised the extent of my wardrobe.
buffy: really?
ben: i actually have entire outfits that aren't blue pajamas.
scene direction: buffy laughs
buffy: um, my sister ... uh, told me what happened at the hospital before i got there.
scene direction: ben wary
ben: uh huh.
buffy: and, uh, i just wanted to say ... thanks.
scene direction: buffy ben looks confused
buffy: for looking after her?
scene direction: ben sighs, smiles
ben: that's okay. i'm glad dawn's all right.
scene change: cut to spike and xander by the bar.
xander: the point is, i work hard for that money.
spike: and you're saying i didn't?
xander: you stole it.
spike: and you're making it into very hard work!
xander: listen, bleach boy, i don't have a chip in my head. i can do far more damage to you than you can ever do to me.
scene direction: spike isn't listening, as he has noticed buffy chatting with ben and is watching them intently.
scene direction: spike distracted, still watching buffy
spike: yeah? like you could ever hurt me.
scene change: cut to train station. a porter leans against a fence reading a spiderman comic as a train approaches, the horn blowing. it comes to a stop.
scene direction: lingering shot of the stair in the doorway of the train.
scene direction: shot of the porter straightening up, waiting for the passengers to start coming out.
scene direction: another shot of the doorway. no one appears.
scene direction: the porter frowns, walks forward to the door of the train and calls inside.
porter: sunnydale station! last stop this line.
scene direction: nothing. he looks around. the platform is empty.
scene change: cut to the porter entering one of the train cars. he walks to the first row of seats, stops and looks shocked.
scene direction: shot of a male passenger lying slumped over with blood on his neck and on the pillow behind his head.
scene direction: shot of the porter looking shocked.
scene direction: short of a female passenger also lying slumped over dead and bloody.
scene direction: the porter walks farther into the train and we see more dead passengers in the seats.
scene direction: shot of another female passenger with her arm stretched out into the aisle, covered with blood from a wound on the wrist.
scene direction: the porter breathes heavily. sound of footsteps. he turns and sees something.
porter: oh god! oh please! help me! somebody please! help me!
scene direction: he runs back the way he came.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the train's doorway. the porter appears still screaming 'help me!' before he can make his way down the stairs, something grabs him from behind and drags him back into the train. we hear him screaming.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on exterior shot of the summers home, night. sound of a door closing.
scene change: cut to inside. giles, joyce, and dawn are sitting in the living room. joyce and giles have books; dawn sits on the floor watching television.
scene direction: joyce looking toward the door
joyce: buffy?
scene direction: buffy enters.
buffy: i'm back by popular demand.
giles: did you have a nice time?
scene direction: buffy ponders, sits
buffy: you know, i think i did. much-needed fun, apart from willow's headaches and spike's cameo appearance.
dawn: spike was there?
buffy: unfortunately.
scene direction: joyce comes forward to sit beside buffy.
joyce: well, i'm relieved that you're home. because to be honest, i wasn't feeling all that safe with you gone.
scene direction: shot of giles sipping tea, raising his eyebrows in an injured manner.
scene direction: buffy looks meaningfully from her mother to giles and back.
scene direction: joyce quickly
joyce: at first. and then i, um, remembered that, um, rupert was here and i felt much, much safer.
scene direction: giles puts down book, gets up
giles: yes, well, thank you for the little backpedal, but uh, i'm forced to agree that i'm ... barely an adequate substitute for a slayer in the house.
scene direction: giles moves toward the door
giles: good night.
joyce: good night.
scene direction: buffy gets up and follows giles to the hallway where he begins putting on his coat.
buffy: so how is dawn?
giles: she's, uh, she's coping very well. extremely well, really, considering the extraordinary circumstances of her origin.
buffy: then lemme ask you something. um, we've been going easy on her the last week ... letting things slide?
giles: oh, i don't think that's at all wise.
buffy: you don't?
giles: no, the best thing you can do now is behave exactly as you always have. any special treatment at this stage is likely to undermine dawn's sense of normality.
buffy: you think so?
giles: absolutely.
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: thanks.
scene direction: buffy turns around and yells sharply
buffy: dawn!
scene direction: dawn jumps up from the floor.
dawn: what?!
buffy: what did i tell you about borrowing my clothing?
dawn: i didn't take your clothes.
buffy: bull!
dawn: i never touched your stuff.
buffy: really. then what happened to my blue cashmere sweater?
scene change: cut to spike sitting in his crypt, fondling buffy's blue cashmere sweater.
scene direction: harmony os
harmony: spikey...
scene direction: spike quickly hides the sweater behind him and turns in his chair. we see harmony wearing a silk negligee.
harmony: aren't you coming to bed?
spike: i'm not tired.
harmony: me neither.
scene direction: she comes forward and slides onto spike's lap, giving him an excellent view of her cleavage. he turns his head aside, looking annoyed.
harmony: don't you wanna come in and ... tire me out?
spike: harm ...
scene direction: spike she kisses his ear
spike: really not in the mood right now.
scene direction: harmony annoyed
harmony: you're never in the mood!
scene direction: harmony kisses his ear again
harmony: we could do something different tonight.
spike: like what, you stop yammering for two seconds?
scene direction: harmony caressing his face
harmony: well, we could ... i don't know ... maybe play a game?
scene direction: spike looks at her, thoughtful.
scene change: cut to harmony jumping out of the shadows, wearing buffy's blue sweater and a pair of tight brown leather pants, holding a stake. she stalks dramatically around the crypt.
harmony: oh, i'm gonna stake you!
scene direction: harmony looks around
harmony: i'm coming after you, you bad, evil vampire,
scene direction: harmony gestures with the stake
harmony: and i'm gonna slay you!
scene direction: harmony pauses and thinks for a moment
harmony: i'm sneaking up, and i'm going to stake you so much with my slaying powers that i have because i'm the chosen-
scene direction: she shrieks as spike, shirtless, lunges into the shot and grabs her around the waist, growling, pulling her to the ground. the camera doesn't follow them down but remains focused on the darkened crypt.
scene direction: harmony os
harmony: oh, spike!
scene change: cut to exterior uc sunnydale building, day.
willow voiceover: i just don't see why he couldn't end up with esmerelda.
scene change: cut to inside. tara, buffy, and willow are walking along the hallways.
willow: they could have the wedding right there. beneath the very bell-tower where he labored thanklessly for all those years.
tara: no, see, it can't, it can't end like that, 'cause all of quasimodo's actions were selfishly motivated. he had no moral compass, no understanding of right. everything he did, he did out of love for a woman who would never be able to love him back.
scene direction: tara they come to a vending machine and stop walking. tara digs in her purse. willow looks in hers as well
tara: also, you can tell it's not gonna have a happy ending when the main guy's all bumpy.
scene direction: willow takes some money out of her purse and hands it to tara, who smiles and turns to the vending machine.
willow: what did you think, buffy?
buffy: the test isn't till tomorrow, right?
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: i don't have an opinion till then.
willow: but, you read it, right?
buffy: kinda not. i rented the movie.
scene direction: tara takes her snack out of machine
tara: oh, with, um, with charles laughton?
buffy: i don't know. was he one of the singing gargoyles?
willow: oh boy.
scene direction: willow they all begin to walk off
buffy: what, i, i'm kidding!
scene direction: buffy notices a guy reading a newspaper
buffy: you're done with this?
scene direction: buffy grabs the paper from him
guy: yeah, hi, uh, kind of reading that?
scene direction: buffy ignores him, taking the paper over to willow and tara, staring at the front page.
scene direction: shot of front page of the sunnydale press reading 'metrotrain murder six found murdered on train at sunnydale station'.
buffy: 'six found murdered on train at sunnydale station.'
tara: glory?
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: 'unconfirmed reports of severe trauma to the throats of one or more of the victims.'
scene direction: buffy lowers the paper
buffy: survey says ... vampire.
scene change: cut to spike climbing up some stairs, emerging in his crypt. a woman is watching him; we only see her from the back. spike reaches the top of the stairs, sees her and gasps in surprise.
spike: oh, it's you.
scene direction: spike frowns
spike: what are you doing here lurking about?
scene direction: he bends over to slide a trapdoor cover over the hole in the floor that he just emerged from. we see the visitor is dawn.
dawn: i'm not lurking. i'm looking. what are you doing?
scene direction: spike nervous
spike: nothing.
dawn: so is that how you get around town in the daytime? i mean, does that lead into the sewers or something? can you show me?
spike: no.
scene direction: spike moves forward
spike: why are you-
scene direction: spike pauses, sighs
spike: does buffy know you're here?
scene direction: spike takes out a cigarette, lights it
dawn: yeah, right.
scene direction: dawn turns and walks a little bit away
dawn: 'cause nothing would make her happier than to find out i'm hanging out after school in the vampire's lair. especially yours.
scene direction: spike snaps off his lighter in annoyance
spike: go home then.
dawn: i don't feel like it right now.
spike: well, you can't bloody well stay here.
dawn: why not?
spike: because, i've got things to do.
scene direction: dawn folds her arms over her chest, looking skeptical. spike approaches her.
spike: bad, evil things!
scene direction: spike dawn tries to stifle a grin
spike: that are not for a child's eyes.
scene direction: dawn stops smiling
dawn: i'm not a child.
scene direction: dawn goes to lean against a pillar
dawn: i'm not even human. not originally.
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: yeah, well, originally i was. i got over it.
scene direction: spike sits on the edge of a coffin
spike: doesn't seem to me it matters very much how you start out.
dawn: that's smart. i get that.
scene direction: dawn pauses
dawn: i like how you talk to me like i can understand things. everyone else is being all ... twitchy and secretive.
spike: they're just trying to keep you safe, i expect.
dawn: i feel safe with you.
scene direction: spike chokes on his cigarette smoke in horror. he begins to cough and jumps down from the casket. dawn moves forward from the pillar in alarm.
spike: take that back!
scene direction: dawn quickly
dawn: i, i mean, you have that whole ... superpower thing, and ... you're just as tough as buffy is, maybe tougher.
scene direction: dawn quieter
dawn: buffy thinks so too.
spike: she does?
dawn: well, she's always worried about what she's gonna do if you ever get that chip out of your head.
spike: is that right? so, um...
scene direction: spike he sits back down on the coffin and dawn leans back against the pillar
spike: what else does buffy say about me?
scene change: cut to buffy entering the summers house, day, holding an armful of books.
scene direction: buffy calls
buffy: hey!
scene direction: joyce os
joyce: dawn?
buffy: no, it's me.
scene direction: buffy puts her books down, moves toward the living room. joyce emerges from the kitchen.
joyce: is dawn with you?
buffy: isn't she here?
joyce: no, she didn't come home from school today.
scene direction: joyce anxious
joyce: oh buffy, the news said something about people murdered-
buffy: it's not glory, it has nothing to do with dawn, i promise. look, she probably - i'll find her.
scene direction: she leaves.
scene change: cut to exterior, aerial shot of the graveyard, night.
dawn voiceover: and the lady just invited you in?
scene change: cut to inside spike's crypt. spike and dawn sit on the coffin, both cross-legged, facing each other, with a lantern lit between them. it's very dark.
spike: well, i had hubby by the throat, didn't i? promised her he'd live if she gave me the invite.
dawn: and did you? let him live?
spike: what do you think?
scene direction: dawn frowning
dawn: huh.
spike: too much for you?
scene direction: dawn quickly
dawn: no! keep going.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: and i kill 'em. right quick, the whole lot.
scene direction: spike dawn looks fascinated
spike: but...
scene direction: spike grinning
spike: there's someone missing. supposed to be ... this little girl. so i get real quiet,
scene direction: spike looking at ceiling
spike: and i hear this tiny noise coming from the coal bin. this little sigh.
scene direction: spike looks at dawn
spike: so i listened harder, it's very, very quiet...
scene direction: dawn is hanging on every word.
scene direction: suddenly there's a loud noise of the crypt door banging open. dawn jumps with a very startled gasp. spike starts too, looks over her shoulder at the door.
spike: oh ... bloody hell.
scene direction: buffy comes rushing in.
buffy: spike, i need your help, dawn is-
scene direction: buffy stops short when she sees dawn
buffy: here.
scene direction: buffy spike gets down from the coffin
dawn: spike was just telling a story, a-and he was just at this really cool part-
scene direction: buffy to spike
buffy: what the hell is this? what is she doing here?
dawn: just hanging out.
scene direction: buffy raises eyebrows
buffy: here?
dawn: can you please let him finish the story? then you could do the lecture?
scene direction: buffy scowls, looks over at spike.
buffy: yeah. okay. let's hear the story that spike is telling my little sister.
scene direction: spike nervous
spike: right. yeah.
scene direction: spike shot of the two girls watching, dawn interested, buffy with her arms folded
spike: so, uh, i knew the girl was in the coal bin. so i rip it open, very violent, haul her out of there ...
scene direction: spike looks at buffy
spike: and then i give her to a good family in a nice home,
scene direction: spike buffy rolls her eyes
spike: where they're never ever mean to her, and didn't lock her in the coal bin.
dawn: what? that's so lame!
scene direction: spike to buffy
spike: i was just about to send her home. i knew you'd be frettin'.
buffy: dawn, get your stuff, we're getting out of here.
scene direction: spike watches them leave, frowning.
scene change: cut to buffy and dawn walking through the graveyard.
buffy: why doesn't that register with you? crypt plus vampire equals bad.
dawn: 'cause it was spike!
buffy: hanging out with spike is not cool, dawn, okay? it is, it is dangerous, and ... icky.
scene direction: dawn pauses, smiles bashfully.
dawn: i don't think spike's icky.
buffy: yeah, well, think again, sister-
scene direction: buffy sees dawn's expression and stops. dawn tries to hide her face. buffy folds her arms across her chest.
buffy: you have a crush on him.
dawn: no i don't! it's just,
scene direction: dawn giggles
dawn: he's got cool hair, and he wears cool leather coats and stuff.
scene direction: dawn stops smiling
dawn: and he doesn't treat me like an alien.
buffy: he's a killer, dawn. you cannot have a crush on something that is ... dead, and, and evil, and a vampire.
dawn: right, that's why you were never with angel for three years.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: angel's different. he has a soul.
dawn: spike has a chip. same diff.
scene direction: buffy turns away, gesturing angrily
buffy: i, i can't listen to this!
scene direction: buffy sighs, turns back
buffy: spike is a monster, okay? a-and plus, you are only fourteen years old.
dawn: i like hanging out with him is all. and even if i did have a crush, he wouldn't notice in a million years. not with you around.
buffy: what does that mean?
dawn: spike's totally into you.
scene direction: buffy is speechless.
dawn: oh, come on. you didn't notice? buffy, spike is completely in love with you.
scene direction: buffy stares at her.
buffy: huh?
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: fade in on a piece of yellow police tape (crime scene do not cross) stretched across the doorway of the train. a hand rips it down. pan over to buffy and xander standing on the platform. buffy has the yellow tape in her hand. xander is holding a flashlight.
xander: so, tell me again what we're looking for?
buffy: clues.
scene direction: she goes into the train.
xander: ooooh-kay.
scene direction: he follows.
scene change: cut to inside the train. tape on the seats marks where the victims were found. buffy and xander enter, look around.
xander: could you give me a clue about what kind of clues?
buffy: something. anything.
scene direction: buffy looks around
buffy: just wanna know this was a vamp attack. if it was, how many we're talking about.
scene direction: xander shines his flashlight around.
xander: well, sunnydale's finest didn't ... leave us a lot of stuff to examine ... who knows how many people have traipsed through here.
scene direction: buffy is thinking about something else.
buffy: xander?
xander: what?
scene direction: buffy starts to speak, stops.
buffy: never mind.
scene direction: they each turn to look at a different part of the train car. then buffy turns back.
buffy: i-it's just that ... dawn ... said that...
xander: yeah?
buffy: forget it.
xander: buffy!
scene direction: xander walks toward her
buffy: she thinks that ... she said that ...
scene direction: buffy xander nods, waits for it
buffy: spike's in love with me.
scene direction: xander frowns for a second, then bursts out laughing.
buffy: i'm not joking.
scene direction: xander still laughing
xander: oh, i hope not. it's funnier if it's true.
buffy: i'm serious. xander, this is serious!
scene direction: he stops laughing with an effort, puts up a hand to show willing.
scene direction: xander seriously
xander: all right.
scene direction: xander clears throat
scene direction: after a moment he snickers and begins laughing again. buffy pouts, sits down on a seat, right inside the tape outline of a corpse.
buffy: it's creepy.
xander: no. not creepy. 'cause it's not real! i mean, how upset can you really get over one of spike's ... fevered daydreams that's not gonna happen?
buffy: i guess.
xander: so, where did dawn, how did she come to this *extremely* ... entertaining conclusion?
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: she was hanging out with spike. i think she has a crush on him.
scene direction: she walks past xander, who turns to watch her in dismay.
xander: what?
buffy: i mean, i always knew that he had this ... weird fixation with me...
xander: i'm the one she has a crush on! me!
scene direction: buffy shakes head
buffy: there's nothing here. let's go.
scene direction: buffy turns to leave
xander: it's always been me! big funny xander! oh, what, she just suddenly decides i'm not the cool one any more? why is that okay?
scene direction: xander follows buffy out. the camera pans up to the cargo compartment in the ceiling of the train car. we see an antique doll lying on its side, with a red blindfold tied around its eyes.
scene change: cut to buffy entering her home, walking down the hall toward the kitchen.
scene direction: joyce os
joyce: but what they didn't get was, that it was a copy of the bill of lading...
scene direction: pan down the hallway. we see joyce leaning on the kitchen island. as the camera moves closer we see dawn on the other side of the island, listening and smiling.
joyce: ...so they thought that it was another order form, so now i've got two shipments of greek amphorae on my hands!
scene direction: the camera pans further and we see spike sitting on the counter behind dawn. all three laugh at the conclusion of joyce's story.
spike: that's funny. and really, how many do you need, amphorae?
scene direction: they all laugh more. buffy enters, folding her arms over her chest. joyce sees her.
scene direction: joyce giggling
joyce: oh, buffy. spike came by to apologize for yesterday.
scene direction: joyce puts her hands over dawn's
joyce: our missing child drama.
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: and he just decided to ... hang out for a while?
joyce: oh, well, i got talking about the gallery. see, there was this-
spike: oh, don't get us all laughing again, joyce. anyhow, i really need to talk to your eldest.
buffy: what about?
scene direction: spike gets down from the counter and goes past buffy into the hallway. she turns to follow him, looking suspicious.
spike: i got a bit of info you might be keen on knowin'.
buffy: sorry, all out of cash. why don't you hit on giles - hit *up* giles.
spike: i got a bead on the guy who killed those people. the ones on the train.
buffy: do tell.
scene direction: spike jerking his head to indicate she should come with him
spike: i'll do better than that, i'll show.
scene direction: buffy doesn't budge. spike frowns.
spike: what's the matter?
scene direction: buffy nervous
buffy: nothing ... just...
scene direction: spike sighs, rolls his eyes
spike: two vamps holed up in a warehouse downtown. come on, what are you waiting for, grab your coat and your pointy sticks.
scene direction: buffy moves past him. he lets her pass and falls in behind her.
scene change: cut to spike and buffy sitting in a car watching a warehouse. spike looks at buffy. she gives him a sharp look back. he looks away. buffy frowns at him, looking very suspicious and nervous.
scene direction: spike suddenly reaches toward her and buffy flinches back in her seat.
buffy: hey!
scene direction: he opens the glove compartment and takes out a flask. buffy looks relieved. spike takes a swig and then offers her the flask.
buffy: ew.
spike: it's not blood, it's bourbon.
scene direction: buffy slower
buffy: eeeeew.
scene direction: spike grins ruefully
spike: suit yourself.
scene direction: he shakes his head, reaches across buffy to put the flask back, sits back and sighs. he begins to hum, tapping his fingers on the steering wheel. buffy gives him a look, which he doesn't notice.
scene direction: spike sings
spike: i wanna be sedated...
scene direction: spike stops singing, looks at buffy
spike: do you like the ramones?
buffy: so if you're not doing this for the money, why *are* y-
spike: shh!
scene direction: they both look out the front window. two figures walk across the street.
scene direction: closer shot of the two male vamps going up to a door, opening it and entering the warehouse.
scene direction: spike and buffy get out of the car.
scene change: cut to inside warehouse. the two vamps are sitting on a sofa. one is making popcorn over a small lantern. the other is looking through a pile of cds. buffy and spike enter. the vamps get up.
vamp 1: the slayer!
scene direction: the two vamps turn and run away. the popcorn continues popping.
spike: well, that was sad.
scene direction: spike buffy moves forward, looking around
spike: i'm embarrassed for our kind.
scene direction: shot of the vamps' furniture arranged in a cozy grouping.
scene direction: spike comes forward, goes a few steps in the direction the vampires went.
scene direction: the popcorn disappears at this point.
spike: so. should we chase after 'em, then? they couldn't have gone far.
scene direction: buffy is still staring at the furniture and stuff.
buffy: these vamps have been here for a while. they've nested.
spike: so ... you're saying they're a couple of poofters?
buffy: no. i'm saying they had nothing to do with last night's murders.
spike: how do you figure?
buffy: whoever did it only arrived in town last night. looks like you've wasted my time.
scene direction: she turns to leave.
scene direction: spike hurries after her, arrives in time to open the door for her. buffy stops with her hand up (prepared to grab the doorknob) and turns to spike with a frown.
buffy: what are you doing?
scene direction: spike looks at the door
spike: i, i was ...
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: i wasn't thinking.
buffy: what is this?
spike: oh, come-
scene direction: spike shoves the door closed
spike: don't get your knickers twisted, i was-
buffy: what ... is this?
scene direction: buffy spike stares at her
buffy: the late-night stakeout, the bogus suspects, the flask?
scene direction: buffy spike raises his eyebrows
buffy: is this a date?
scene direction: spike loudly
spike: a d- please!
scene direction: spike pretending to be amused
spike: a date? you are completely off your bird! i mean -
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: do you want it to be?
scene direction: buffy makes a little groan, with an expression of disgust. she moves past spike back into the warehouse.
scene direction: buffy upset
buffy: oh my god.
scene direction: spike bites his lip, turns to watch her.
buffy: oh ... oh no.
scene direction: buffy turns back to spike
buffy: are you out of your mind?
scene direction: buffy continuity note: the popcorn reappears
spike: it's not so unusual.
scene direction: spike walks toward her
spike: two people ... in the workplace ... feelings develop.
buffy: no! no, no, feelings do not develop. no feelings.
spike: you can't deny it. there's something between us.
buffy: loathing. disgust.
spike: heat. desire.
buffy: please! spike, you're a vampire.
spike: angel was a vampire.
buffy: angel was good!
spike: and i can be too. i've changed, buffy.
buffy: what, that chip in your head? that's not change. tha-that's just ... holding you back. you're like a serial killer in prison!
spike: women marry 'em all the time!
buffy: uhh!
scene direction: spike realizing that's not what he meant
spike: but i'm not ... like that. something's happening to me. i can't stop thinking about you.
buffy: uhh.
scene direction: buffy turns away
spike: and if that means turning my back on the whole evil thing-
scene direction: buffy turns back
buffy: you don't know what you mean! you don't know what feelings are!
scene direction: spike offended
spike: i damn well do! i lie awake every night!
buffy: you sleep during the day!
spike: yeah, but -
scene direction: spike through his teeth
spike: you are missing the point. this is real here. i love-
buffy: don't!
scene direction: she puts up a hand to stop him. he sighs.
buffy: don't say it.
scene direction: buffy spike stares at her
buffy: i'm going. she starts to walk toward the door again.
spike: oh, come on, we need to talk-
scene direction: buffy turns back
buffy: we don't need to do anything! okay, there is no we! understand?
scene direction: she turns to leave.
spike: buffy.
scene direction: she opens the door and exits. spike watches her go.
scene change: cut to spike entering his crypt, moving slowly. it's dark. he walks in, makes a face and puts his hand to his face. suddenly there's a sniffling noise. spike looks up, looks around suspiciously.
spike: who's there?
scene direction: a voice comes from the shadows behind him. he turns.
voice: a happy memory, pretty spike.
scene direction: drusilla walks out from the shadows, holding a red rose.
drusilla: look who's come to make everything right again.
scene direction: spike stares at her, astonished. she puts the rosebud against her cheek and draws it down across her face.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: fade in on closeup of spike.
spike: so, uh, let me get this straight. darla got mojo'd back from the beyond ... you vamped her...
scene direction: spike camera pulls back so we can see dru circling behind him
spike: ...and now she and you are working on turning angel into his own bad self again.
drusilla: mm-hmm.
spike: sounds fun.
drusilla: it is. like lollipops at the circus. although ... didn't care for angelus setting us on fire.
scene direction: drusilla she touches her cheek and chest where we can see still-healing burn marks.
spike: and this has got you, what, all nostalgic now, has it?
drusilla: i want us to be a family again, my william.
scene direction: she walks up close to him and puts her mouth next to his ear.
scene direction: drusilla whispers
drusilla: come back with me.
scene direction: drusilla pulls back to look at him
spike: to los angeles?
scene direction: spike she nods
spike: i've done the whole l.a. scene, dru. didn't agree with me.
scene direction: spike walks away
spike: besides, i've got a sweet little setup here in sunny-d.
scene direction: spike gestures around
spike: decent digs...
scene direction: spike sits in his armchair
spike: not to mention all the tasty townies i can eat.
scene direction: dru rubs one finger against the other in a scolding gesture.
drusilla: naughty! shh.
scene direction: drusilla puts finger to her lips
drusilla: you needn't make up stories. i already know why you're not coming. poor boy.
scene direction: drusilla puts hands to her head
drusilla: tin soldiers put funny little knick-knacks in your brain. can't hunt! can't hurt! can't kill!
scene direction: she jerks her head on each 'can't' in an imitation of spike being zapped by the chip.
drusilla: you've got a chip.
scene direction: she tries to put her hands on spike's head but he gets up from the chair and moves away.
spike: right, so you've heard. poor spike's become a cautionary tale for vampires, right? 'you better be good, kiddies, or else they might wire you up someday!'
scene direction: spike kicks something across the room
drusilla: i don't believe in science. all those bits and molecules no one's ever seen. i trust eyes and heart alone.
scene direction: drusilla walks over to him
drusilla: and do you know what mine is singing out right now?
scene direction: she takes spike's hand and puts it over her heart. he stares at her.
drusilla: you're a killer. born to slash ... and bash ... and...
scene direction: drusilla gives a little gasp of pleasure
drusilla: oh, bleed like beautiful poetry.
scene direction: dru breathes faster, getting excited. they turn in a circle, still with spike's hand on her chest.
drusilla: no little tinker-toy could ever stop you from flowing.
scene direction: spike whispers
spike: yeah.
drusilla: ohh.
scene direction: spike shakes his head, removes his hand from her
spike: but the pain ... love, you don't understand, it's ... it's searing. it's, um, blinding.
scene direction: she puts her hand on the top of his head and pulls it down toward her.
drusilla: all in your head. i can see it. little bit of ... plastic, spiderwebbing out nasty blue shocks.
scene direction: drusilla moves her fingers across his head imitating a spider
drusilla: and every one is a lie.
scene direction: drusilla spike keeps his head bent
drusilla: electricity lies, spike. it tells you you're not a bad dog, but you are.
scene direction: she runs her hand around behind his head and then across his face, takes his chin and lifts it to look at her. spike growls. they gaze into each other's eyes.
scene direction: harmony os
harmony: what the heck is this?
spike: oh, bloody hell.
scene direction: he turns to see harmony entering. she comes over to them.
harmony: who is - oh, wait. i get it. our little sex game was just the beginning. now you've gone and picked up some cheap queen of the damned to dress up like your precious drood-zilla.
spike: harm.
harmony: you'd better not be thinking what i think you're thinking. 'cause my answer is the same as always. no threesomes unless it's
scene direction: harmony gestures to spike
harmony: boy,
scene direction: harmony gestures to the air
harmony: boy,
scene direction: harmony gestures to herself
harmony: girl. or charlize theron.
spike: harm, you moron, this *is* drusilla.
scene direction: dru just watches with a small smile.
harmony: oh. well,
scene direction: harmony walks toward dru
harmony: you've got some nerve showing up here like this. after all this time. after breaking my sweet boo-boo's heart.
scene direction: dru looks over harmony's shoulder at spike and mouths the word 'boo-boo.' spike shrugs.
harmony: do you have any idea how hard it's been to break down the walls he put up after you left? i mean, *serious* trust issues.
spike: harm...
harmony: so it's no use you crawling back to him, 'cause spikey don't play that game any more, morticia.
scene direction: dru puts up a hand as if to block out the sight of harmony. harmony turns back to spike and he grabs her by the throat.
scene direction: spike looking at dru
spike: it's been fun while it lasted, harm,
scene direction: spike dru smiles
spike: but i think it'd be best now if you hit the road.
scene direction: he throws harmony across the room. she hits the wall and slides down to the floor, clutching her throat and panting.
harmony: why? because she's back?
scene direction: spike still looking at dru
spike: no.
scene direction: spike moves closer to dru
spike: because i am.
scene direction: dru smiles. harmony begins to get to her feet. spike puts his arm around dru's waist and pulls her up against him.
drusilla: and there you are, my darling, deadly boy.
scene direction: she puts her hand on the back of his neck and they kiss.
scene change: cut to joyce, buffy, and willow sitting in the summers living room.
willow: well, he ... he actually told you? he, he said, 'i love you'?
buffy: well, i-i didn't let him get that far, but ... i could see the words coming.
joyce: honey, did you ... somehow, unintentionally, lead him on in any way? uh, send him signals?
scene direction: buffy ponders
buffy: well, i ... i do beat him up a lot. for spike that's like third base.
scene direction: joyce looks upset, stands up.
willow: buffy, um ... i'm really worried.
joyce: so am i. he could become dangerous.
buffy: not really. as long as it's still chips ahoy in spike's head he can't hurt me, or any of us. you know, besides, this'll probably just blow over. you know? it's just some weird spike thing. he'll have the hots for some gak demon before we know it.
willow: i don't know. uh, these things can, can become pretty twisted.
scene direction: joyce comes back to sit down again
joyce: yeah, and spike, i mean, he's...
buffy: pretty twisted.
joyce: yeah.
willow: well, well, you made it clear, right? that it could never happen. that there's no possible way. ever.
buffy: yeah!
scene direction: buffy looks at them
buffy: i, i think so. i don't know, i, i was just so thrown.
willow: well, buffy, you have to talk to him again.
buffy: what? no. no, no, no, i have to avoid him again.
willow: not until you shut him down completely. if he thinks there's even a little chance with you, there's no telling what he'll do.
scene direction: buffy looks concerned.
scene change: cut to the bronze. the group devics is onstage performing their song 'key.'
scene direction: and this time i'm staying to bury the trail that you left, you left
scene direction: pan across people dancing. pan over to the door. spike and dru enter, arm in arm. spike is once again wearing his usual attire complete with long black leather coat. he takes a glass of wine from a tray carried by a passing waitress. the waitress gives him a dirty look as dru removes her coat.
scene direction: shot of the band doing an instrumental interlude.
scene direction: cut back to dru putting the now-empty glass down. spike takes her hands and they move onto the dance floor and begin to dance, very slow and sensual. the singer resumes singing.
scene direction: and if i was cold, well then you would stay inside me, warm me...
scene direction: dru looks up.
scene direction: shot of a couple kissing on the balcony above.
scene direction: dru turns around so that her back is to spike. he puts his arms around her waist. she leans back against him, grins and looks up again.
scene direction: another shot of the couple still kissing.
scene direction: dru leans her head back on spike's shoulder and draws his attention to the couple. spike has an evil expression as he and dru begin to move off the dance floor.
scene change: cut to the summers house. joyce is in the hallway taking a coat down from a hook.
joyce: i know this is hard, honey, but i think you made the right decision.
scene direction: she walks back into the living room where buffy and willow are standing. joyce gives the coat to buffy.
joyce: better to nip this in the bud before-
buffy: the bud nips me?
joyce: exactly.
willow: if you want, buffy, i can go with. back you up with some scowling.
scene direction: she demonstrates her scowl as buffy puts on her coat.
buffy: thanks, but ... i think this is something i have to do myself. besides, you know, maybe i'm wrong. maybe this, this whole thing's just been blown way out of proportion and ... he's already gone back to wanting me dead.
willow: here's hoping.
scene direction: willow grins and holds up both hands with the fingers crossed
scene direction: buffy sighs, turns and walks toward the door. she stops and turns back to willow.
buffy: you know what, though? there is one thing you can do for me while i'm gone.
scene direction: cut back to the bronze. close-up shot of the couple still kissing on the balcony. pan across to spike and dru, climbing the stairs hand in hand. dru has her vamp face on. they walk in step, slow-motion, as the music continues.
scene direction: i told you just like i told everyone
scene direction: i still have some doubts that you are the reason
scene direction: dru walks up to the couple, grabs the girl's head and twists it. we hear her neck snap. dru pushes the dead girl back toward spike, who catches her as the boy looks on in horror.
scene direction: still this is just so hard 'cause i know that i'll be left like always
scene direction: dru walks behind the boy, turns his face aside and leans in to bite his neck.
scene direction: shot of the dead girl with her head lolling back, exposing her neck. pan up to spike staring at her neck. he looks over at dru, who raises her head from the boy to look at spike, smiling.
scene direction: here i'm safe so here i stay
scene direction: lift me out, lift the doubt
scene direction: spike looks conflicted. he closes his eyes, looks back at the girl, takes a few deep breaths. his vampire face appears and he bends down with a growl to bite the girl's neck.
scene direction: shot of dru watching, then turning back to her meal.
scene direction: zoom in on spike drinking from the dead girl.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. the door opens and buffy peeks in, looking around.
buffy: spike? ... are you here?
scene direction: she walks in, looking around.
buffy: spike?
scene direction: nothing. she sighs. then she looks at the floor, sees the trap-door, crouches down and moves it aside, looking down into the hole.
scene change: cut to underground. buffy comes down a wooden ladder and emerges into an underground cave. there's a torch burning on the wall and a pile of human skulls by the foot of the ladder. buffy takes down the torch and looks around, finding a couple of caskets lying with their lids open. more skulls lying all around.
scene direction: buffy goes over to one wall that's covered by a sheet. she pulls it aside and reveals spike's mannequin. the sheet drops away and reveals a whole buffy shrine with a collage of pictures of her -- some photos, some drawings -- on the wall, and more pictures on a small table, along with some stakes.
scene change: cut to buffy climbing back up the ladder. she looks up, startled. spike is squatting by the trap-door waiting for her. there's blood on his mouth.
spike: see anything interesting?
scene direction: buffy continues climbing out
buffy: spike. i, uh ... what ...
scene direction: buffy begins backing up as spike advances on her
buffy: what happened?
scene direction: drusilla os
drusilla: me.
scene direction: buffy turns to see drusilla behind her. dru holds out a cattle prod/taser and zaps buffy with it. buffy falls to the floor with a grunt. spike grins.
spike: you remember my ex, don't you, slayer?
scene direction: he walks around buffy toward dru as buffy sits up, leaning against the casket, groaning and wincing in pain. spike puts an arm around dru's shoulders.
spike: come back, she did. couldn't live without me.
drusilla: my boy's been feeding again. but i know what he really wants to eat.
scene direction: dru leans over to buffy, who can't move. dru tasers her again. buffy falls over. dru straightens up.
drusilla: shall we tie her up?
scene direction: drusilla licks her finger
drusilla: play with her a teensy bit first.
scene direction: spike pensively, looking at buffy
spike: i'm through playing.
scene direction: drusilla delighted
drusilla: oooh. i like it when you're all dour and straight to business-like.
scene direction: spike looks at her. she gives him the taser.
scene direction: spike reaches out and tasers dru. she gives a cry of pain and falls down.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: bloody well through playing.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: fade in on buffy coming back to consciousness.
scene direction: spike os
spike: there she is.
scene direction: pull out to reveal buffy in the underground cave, standing in a stone arch, with each hand cuffed to chains hanging from above. her hands are chained at about shoulder-height. spike stands directly in front of her. buffy gasps anxiously and tugs at her bonds.
spike: beginning to think you'd sleep the night away.
scene direction: buffy stares at him, then remembers.
buffy: dru ... drusilla?
scene direction: spike raises his eyebrows with a slight grin. he moves aside so that buffy can see dru, tied to a pillar with her hands behind her back. dru and buffy are facing each other, about ten feet apart.
drusilla: not nice to change the game in mid-play, spike. you've taken my chair and the music hasn't stopped.
spike: sorry, pet. my house, my rules.
drusilla: i think i shall be very cross with you when i'm free again.
buffy: what's going on?
spike: simple. i'm gonna prove something.
scene direction: spike moves up close to her
spike: i love you.
scene direction: buffy closes her eyes and grimaces in disgust.
buffy: oh my god.
spike: no, look at me!
scene direction: spike grabs her chin and forces her to look at him
spike: i ... love you.
scene direction: spike buffy jerks her chin out of his hand
spike: you're all i bloody think about. dream about. you're in my gut ... my throat ... i'm drowning in you, summers, i'm drowning in you.
scene direction: dru begins to laugh. spike turns.
spike: i can do without the laugh track, dru.
drusilla: but it's so funny. i knew ... before you did. i knew you loved the slayer. the pixies in my head whispered it to me.
scene direction: spike turns back to buffy as dru continues talking.
spike: you can't tell me that there isn't anything there between you and me. i know you feel something.
buffy: it's called revulsion. and whatever you think you're feeling, it's not love. you can't love without a soul.
drusilla: oh, we can, you know. we can love quite well. if not wisely.
scene direction: spike to buffy
spike: you still don't believe. still don't think i mean it. you want proof, huh? how's this?
scene direction: he stalks over to the buffy shrine, grabs a stake off the table, turns and puts the stake against dru's chest. he looks over at buffy.
spike: i'm gonna kill drusilla for you.
scene direction: dru begins laughing again.
buffy: that doesn't prove anything ... except that you're a sick miserable vampire that i should have dusted a long time ago. and, hey, already there.
spike: don't mock this.
buffy: go mock yourself.
spike: this is drusilla, girl! you have the slightest idea what she means to me? it's the face of my salvation!
scene direction: spike looks at dru, smiles slightly
spike: she delivered me from mediocrity. for over a century we ... cut a swath through continents. a hundred years, she never stopped surprising me.
scene direction: he caresses drusilla's cheek ad she leans her face into his hand.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: never stopped taking me to new depths. i was a lucky bloke.
scene direction: spike dru smiles
spike: just to touch such a black beauty.
scene direction: shot of buffy looking bored.
scene direction: spike continues stroking dru's face as she smiles.
drusilla: aw...
scene direction: suddenly spike lifts the stake again and puts it firmly against dru's chest. she gasps and winces.
drusilla: ow.
scene direction: spike turning to look at buffy
spike: so you see, it means something.
buffy: not to me. kill her, why do i care?
scene direction: spike looks surprised, takes his hand down.
spike: here's why.
scene direction: spike walks toward buffy
spike: if you don't admit ... that there's something there ... some tiny feeling for me ... then i'll untie dru, let her kill you instead.
scene direction: drusilla nodding quickly
drusilla: yes, please. i like that game much more.
spike: just ... give me something ... a crumb ... a barest smidgen ... tell me ... maybe, someday, there's a chance.
scene direction: buffy looks intensely at him. he moves right up close to her.
buffy: spike...
scene direction: he looks hopeful.
buffy: the only chance you had with me was when i was unconscious.
scene direction: spike puzzled
spike: oh, what...
scene direction: spike makes a face of extreme frustration
spike: ohh!
scene direction: he turns away, throws the stake away and gives a loud angry yell.
scene direction: spike shouting
spike: gaaah! what the bleeding hell is wrong with you bloody women? what the hell does it take? why ... do you bitches torture me?
buffy: which question do you want me to answer first?
spike: look, i, i'm at the end of my bleeding tether. you know? i don't even know why i even bother, you know.
scene direction: spike points at dru
spike: this is your fault. you're the one to blame for all this.
drusilla: am i?
scene direction: spike shouting
spike: bloody right you are! if you hadn't left me for that chaos demon, i never would have come back here! never would have had this sodding chip in my skull! and you -
scene direction: spike to buffy
spike: wouldn't be able to touch me, because this,
scene direction: spike pointing to buffy, then to himself
spike: with you, is wrong. i know it. i'm not a complete idiot.
scene direction: he stomps past buffy, then turns back.
spike: you think i like having you in here? destroying everything that was me, until all that's left is you, in a dead shell.
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: you say you hate it, but you won't leave. you know, what i should just do, is get rid of both of you. burn you. cut you into little pieces
scene direction: spike makes scissor gesture with his fingers
spike: so there won't be any more bints to cock up things for spi-
scene direction: he suddenly stops talking and spins around, falls over as we see an arrow protruding from his back and harmony standing behind him with a crossbow.
scene direction: shot of spike on the floor, looking up.
spike: oh, great.
scene direction: harmony os
harmony: what about me, spike?
scene direction: we see her standing over him.
harmony: you forget about me again? the *actual* girlfriend?
scene direction: shot of drusilla looking at buffy. shot of buffy watching harmony.
harmony: i gave you the best ... bunch of months of my life!
scene direction: she hits him over the head with the crossbow.
drusilla: that's right, little girl. teach our naughty boy a lesson.
scene direction: spike still on the floor
spike: oh, so now you're all ganging up.
harmony: i thought i could change you, spike. i thought maybe if i gave and i gave and gave, maybe you'd come around. maybe be a little nicer. stop treating me like your dog.
scene direction: harmony begins reloading the crossbow
harmony: but now i see it's you. you're the dog. who needs to be put d-
scene direction: she turns away for a moment and spike rushes her, grabs the crossbow and hits her in the face. he throws the crossbow away.
scene direction: shot of dru looking over at buffy. shot of buffy tugging at her chains.
scene direction: spike tries a kick on harmony, which she avoids. she punches him.
scene direction: shot of dru struggling. shot of her hands behind her, tied with rope. shot of buffy struggling.
scene direction: harmony knees spike in the groin, slaps him, but he ducks another swing, knees her in the stomach and throws her to the floor. the arrow is still sticking out of his back.
scene direction: drusilla frees herself from the ropes and runs across to buffy, who jumps up to brace herself against the sides of the arch. dru punches her in the stomach, then tries to swing but buffy blocks with her still-chained hands and head-butts dru.
scene direction: spike is on top of harmony, pinning her down.
harmony: ow, you're on my hair!
scene direction: she reaches around him, grabs the arrow in his back, and twists. spike gives a cry of pain.
scene direction: buffy kicks dru, flips over, locks her legs around dru's neck and flings dru aside.
scene direction: harmony is standing, with the arrow in her hand. spike is on the ground getting up. she tries to stake spike with the arrow but he grabs her arm and they grapple.
scene direction: dru picks up a 2x4 and hits buffy with it a few times, grinning.
scene direction: spike punches harmony in the face and she falls down.
scene direction: dru grabs buffy's throat and looks into her face. spike runs over and grabs dru, flings her aside. she falls to the floor. spike takes out the keys and unlocks buffy as dru gets to her feet. buffy and spike stand side-by-side, both panting.
scene direction: dru stands up, holding her face, panting and looking shocked.
drusilla: poor spike...
scene direction: drusilla shot of spike and buffy staring at her
drusilla: so lost.
scene direction: drusilla tearfully
drusilla: even i can't help you now.
scene direction: she turns and leaves.
scene direction: spike and buffy watch her go.
scene direction: harmony os
harmony: oh spikey.
scene direction: both buffy and spike roll their eyes and turn to see harmony standing up.
harmony: and you can say good-bye to this
scene direction: harmony pointing at her butt
harmony: because you're not gonna see it any more ever.
scene direction: harmony thinks
harmony: unless you run into me somewhere and it's me walking away from you.
scene direction: she starts to leave, stops and turns back, putting hands on her hips.
harmony: but even then ... i'll probably just ... you know ... back away.
scene direction: she backs away and exits.
scene direction: buffy turns to spike. he takes a deep breath and looks at her, anticipating.
scene direction: buffy punches him in the face. he goes flying backward into the buffy shrine, bringing the mannequin and all the pictures crashing down.
scene direction: buffy turns and walks off.
scene direction: spike sits up, covered in buffy pictures, and sighs.
scene change: cut to buffy walking quickly down the street near her home. spike runs up behind her.
spike: buffy! come on now, stop.
scene direction: he reaches her and begins walking by her side.
spike: you can't just walk away from this.
buffy: what part of punching you in the face do you not understand?
spike: so we had a fight. it's not our first, love, and it doesn't change anything.
scene direction: buffy stops walking, turns to him angrily
buffy: it changes everything, spike! i want you out. i want you out of this town, i want you off this planet! you don't come near me, my friends, or my family again ever! understand?
scene direction: she walks off. spike shakes his head and follows.
spike: no, it's not that easy. we have something, buffy.
scene direction: spike buffy is walking up the stairs to the front door of her house. spike follows
spike: it's not pretty, but it's real, and there's nothing either one of us can do about it.
scene direction: buffy opens the door and enters, turning to face spike who is right on her heels.
spike: like it or not, i'm in your life, you can't just shut me out.
scene direction: he stops suddenly at the doorway as an invisible force prevents him from entering. buffy stands right inside the door, giving him a grim look.
scene direction: spike stares in surprise, gives a tentative smile, not quite getting it yet. it begins to dawn on him that his invitation to the summers house has been revoked.
scene direction: buffy steps back and closes the door in his face.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producer: joss whedon.