scene direction: episode opens on the uc sunnydale campus. exterior of a building, students walking around and talking.
scene change: cut to a classroom. close shot of a pair of hands fiddling with a slide projector. in the background the door opens and buffy comes in. we see students leaving. the person at the slide projector is the professor. buffy walks over to him.
buffy: professor lillian?
professor: buffy.
buffy: i'm sorry that i missed the lecture today.
scene direction: buffy professor continues struggling with the slide machine
buffy: was it good?
scene direction: he gives her a look.
buffy: um, of course it was.
scene direction: buffy he returns to fiddling
buffy: d-do you want me to try?
professor: yes, thanks, the ...
scene direction: professor gesturing vaguely
professor: slide is stuck in the ... thing.
buffy: okay.
scene direction: buffy begins pulling at the slide
buffy: um, i just ... came by to tell you that ... i have to drop this class. um, all my classes actually. i'm not finishing the semester. i wish it ... um ... i just, i can't be in school right now. i, i have to take care of my sister.
scene direction: professor nods
professor: yes, i, i thought you might. i was very sorry to hear about your loss.
scene direction: buffy looks pensive for a moment, then reaches for her bag.
buffy: um, i have these forms from the registrar's office that i need you to sign.
scene direction: she gives him the papers.
professor: oh ... yes.
scene direction: he puts the papers on the table, puts on his glasses to read them. buffy waits while he signs the papers and gives them back.
buffy: thanks.
scene direction: she puts them in her bag as the professor takes his glasses back off. then she looks back up at him.
professor: is there something else?
buffy: no. yes. yeah. um ... i wanted to tell you ... how much i enjoyed this class.
scene direction: buffy resumes pulling at the slide projector
buffy: i mean, i know that i wasn't the best student, but ... i really learned a lot. uh, and i really like poetry.
scene direction: buffy shot of her hands on the projector
buffy: i really do.
scene direction: the stuck slide pops out and goes flying across the room.
scene direction: buffy embarrassed
buffy: oh, sorry.
scene direction: professor smiles
professor: i'm glad you like poetry, buffy.
buffy: i wish i had time for it. but i just ... don't right now.
professor: well, maybe short poems.
buffy: yeah! like, like those, those japanese ones that, that, um, sound like a sneeze?
professor: haiku?
buffy: right. maybe those. a-and hopefully i'll be back next semester.
scene change: cut to ben rushing down the hospital hallways, looking anxious.
buffy voiceover: when i'm more myself again.
scene direction: ben approaches two doctors who are standing there looking at a clipboard. one wears a white lab coat, the other blue scrubs. they seem to be waiting for ben.
doctor: benjamin. this is a pleasant surprise.
ben: i'm sorry i'm late.
doctor: you're not late.
scene direction: ben looks at his watch
ben: but sir-
doctor: you can't be late to a job that you don't have.
scene direction: doctor gives the clipboard to the other doctor who walks away
doctor: interestingly enough, i've decided to give your job to someone who'll actually do it.
scene direction: doctor ben sighs in annoyance
doctor: honest to god, ben! i've been calling you for two weeks. where the hell have you been? i didn't wanna ... i'm sorry to fire you, but i need somebody i can count on.
scene direction: ben surprised
ben: i haven't been here...
scene direction: ben resigned
ben: i haven't been here in two weeks.
scene direction: ben hopefully
ben: there's an explanation for this. which ... i ... can't exactly give you. i - can i just tell you it's not my fault?
scene direction: doctor nods
doctor: sure. you can also tell me that the dog ate your homework, or maybe eating twinkies made you do it, or ... maybe yeah, that there's really a wicked demonic creature living inside you that takes control of your body and forces you to do its bidding.
scene direction: doctor sighs
doctor: take responsibility for your actions, ben!
ben: i ... this ...
scene direction: ben angrily
ben: you know, forget it. just forget it.
scene direction: he turns to walk away. fast-cut to ben cleaning out his locker, angrily throwing clothes into a bag while talking to himself.
ben: this is so unfair. you're taking everything away from me. everything i worked for, i earned, i care about. these are my choices, this is my life, and you're ruining it!
scene direction: ben pauses, shakes his head
ben: no. no. not here. not now, please.
scene direction: ben puts his hands to his face
ben: i'm ben. i'm ben. i'm ben.
scene direction: he continues to repeat this phrase while turning to bang his hand against the side of the locker. focus on his hand as it shrinks and becomes glory's hand. pan over to glory standing where ben was. she looks around with a small smile.
glory: i'm hungry.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on glory taking a bubble bath. beside the bathtub three of her demons are kneeling, with blindfolds over their eyes. one holds a tray with a wine glass on it, another holds a large box of chocolate.
scene direction: glory happy sigh
glory: we got this part right, that's for sure. lot of sucky things in this dimension -- bubble baths? not one of 'em.
scene direction: glory blows some bubbles
glory: know what i mean?
jinx: i am in thunderous agreement, oh glittering, glistening glorificus.
glory: i wasn't talking to you.
murk: uh, begging your pardon, and begging in general, but ... were you talking to me?
glory: eww. yeah, right. like any of you have ever bathed, anyway.
murk: oh, but we do, your scrumptiousness. we bathe in your splendiforous radiance, your aromatic-
glory: how about you shut up and listen to me, you disgusting little fools?
scene direction: glory all three bow their heads
glory: okay. now, i asked for the key, and you brought me a vampire. a pulseless, impure, follicly-fried vampire. loofah!
scene direction: murk produces a large loofah and gives it to her. she begins scrubbing her leg.
glory: so, what i think we have here is a failure for you to do your frickin' jobs, pardon my french.
scene direction: glory shoves the loofah back into murk's hand
glory: mimosa.
scene direction: slook holds out the tray and glory takes the glass.
glory: mmm ...
scene direction: glory sips, smiles
glory: vitamins.
scene direction: glory briskly
glory: so i think you better rack your little minion brains, and tell me everything that you saw when you were spying on buffy and her wacky pals. everything. mm. then i'll figure out who the key is.
buffy voiceover: you lied to me?
scene change: cut to head-shot of dawn sitting in a chair.
dawn: didn't ... lie ... e-exactly.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: really.
scene change: cut to head-shot of buffy sitting next to her.
buffy: what about all the times i asked you how school was and you said "fine"?
dawn: well, it was!
scene direction: dawn softly
dawn: you didn't ask if i was in it when it was fine.
scene direction: we see a woman sitting behind a desk with a nameplate saying "principal stevens." buffy and dawn sit in chairs on the other side of the desk. buffy sighs.
buffy: i-i don't know what to say. i-i'm sure you're aware that the past few months, you know, have been kind of hard for dawn. not that i'm saying that's an excuse.
principal: i understand. your mother was a lovely woman and we'll all miss her very much. i know how difficult it must be.
buffy: it is. especially for dawn. she-she's just a kid.
principal: well ... i think we both know that dawn is a lot more than "just a kid."
scene direction: dawn looks alarmed, looks over at buffy, who returns the look.
scene direction: principal leans forward
principal: she's a talented young girl ... with a sharp mind ...
scene direction: principal to dawn
principal: when she puts the effort in.
scene direction: dawn looks away in relief.
buffy: look. i realize that there's been some ball-dropping, but i'm sure this will all-
principal: dawn, why don't you wait outside for a few minutes?
scene direction: dawn looks very scared. she looks over at buffy, who gives her a nod. dawn gets up and leaves. buffy watches her go with a sigh.
scene direction: the principal gives buffy a stern look. buffy faces her head-on.
scene change: cut to interior magic shop, day. xander and willow sit at the table, he's reading a comic book and she's reading something else. in the background there's an older couple walking around browsing. the camera pans around to reveal anya on the other side of the table, standing, watching the customers.
scene direction: shot of the customers examining the merchandise.
scene direction: shot of anya watching them, partly hidden behind a display case.
xander: honey.
scene direction: anya whirls around to face him.
xander: old saying. "a watched customer never buys."
anya: they would if they were patriotic.
scene direction: xander and willow both put down their reading material, look at anya, then look at each other.
scene direction: xander to willow
xander: okay, i'm goin' in.
scene direction: xander to anya
xander: patriotic?
anya: yes. i've recently come to realize there's more to me than just being human.
scene direction: anya proudly
anya: i'm also an american.
scene direction: giles appears, holding a cup of tea.
giles: yes, i suppose you are, in a manner of speaking. you were born here -- your mortal self.
scene direction: he walks past her.
anya: well, that's right, foreigner.
scene direction: anya giles gives her a look
anya: so i've been reading a lot about the good ol' us of a
scene direction: anya she says "us" not "u.s."
anya:  embracing the extraordinarily precious ideology that's helped to shape and define it.
willow: democracy?
anya: capitalism. the free market depends on the profitable exchange of goods for currency.
scene direction: anya xander and willow exchange an amused look
anya: it's a system of symbiotic beauty apparently lost on these old people.
scene direction: anya turns to look back at the customers
anya: look at 'em. perusing the shelves. undressing the merchandise with their eyeballs
scene direction: anya turns back to the others
anya: all ogle, no cash. it's not just annoying, it's unamerican.
scene direction: giles comes over to her and peers past her at the customers.
giles: appalling. almost as if they no longer think money can buy happiness.
scene direction: he walks off.
anya: totally unamerican. oh, and you know what else is unamerican? french people.
willow: you don't say.
anya: from what i hear, they don't tip. now, french old people? that's *really* the bottom of the barrel, you know?
xander: ahn, how's about we try being a bit less prejudiced, and a bit more inclusive? not us,
scene direction: xander indicates himself and willow, then points to anya
xander: just you.
anya: fine. i'm gonna make those fogeys buy things.
scene direction: she turns and walks toward the customers. the door opens and buffy enters, followed by dawn. buffy gives anya a little wave as they head down the stairs toward the table.
xander: hey, what's up? it's dawn giovanni and the buffster.
scene direction: dawn sullen
dawn: hi.
buffy: hey everybody.
giles: i trust everything went well at the university?
buffy: yep, i'm, uh, all dropped out.
scene direction: buffy she and dawn sit at the table
xander: good on you. welcome to the real world. lot of fun to be had on the outside.
scene direction: xander looks at willow
xander: you'll see.
buffy: well, it's just for now. i mean, i'm thinking that i'm probably gonna go back next semester.
xander: and that's cool too. whatever you choose, you've got my support. just think of me as ...
scene direction: xander nervous laugh
xander: as your ...
scene direction: xander frowns; buffy looks curiously at him
xander: you know, i'm searching for supportive things, and i'm comin' up all bras, so...
scene direction: xander buffy smiles
xander: something slightly more manly, think of me as that.
scene direction: shot of dawn not smiling.
scene direction: xander quietly
xander: seriously. whatever you need.
buffy: thank you. actually, i need to talk to giles alone for a minute.
scene direction: buffy giles looks up from his tea and newspaper
scene direction: xander os
xander: cool, that's cool.
scene direction: buffy stands
buffy: uh, dawn, why don't you get started on your homework? uh, if you need help,
scene direction: buffy turns to willow
buffy: will, could you?
scene direction: buffy willow nods
buffy: okay.
scene direction: buffy and giles walk out as dawn opens her schoolbag.
scene change: cut to the workout room. buffy sits on the sofa in the background with her chin in her hand as giles toys with the punching bag in the foreground.
buffy: i just don't know what i'm gonna do. i mean, she's messing up ... i'm messing up ... it's a mess.
giles: you're just going to have to put your foot down with her.
buffy: i try. it's just ... my foot's not used to being put down.
scene direction: buffy turns to giles
buffy: i want you to do it.
scene direction: buffy giles sighs
buffy: you can be the foot-putting-downer.
giles: no, buffy, i don't think i can.
buffy: please? pretty please?
scene direction: buffy desperately
buffy: i mean, your foot is way bigger than mine! and you're so much more a grownup than me. dawn needs an authority figure. a strong guiding hand. she'll listen to you.
scene direction: giles scoffs
giles: just like you always have.
buffy: i listen!
scene direction: giles gives her a look.
scene direction: buffy pouts
buffy: i do.
scene direction: giles removes his glasses, sits next to her
giles: well, then perk up your ears. i may be a grownup, but you're her family. her only real family now. she needs you to do this.
scene direction: buffy nervous
buffy: right. she needs me.
scene direction: buffy giles looks sympathetic
buffy: me, the ... grownup.
scene direction: buffy more confidently
buffy: the authority figure. the, the strong guiding hand and, and stompy foot that is me.
giles: that's the spirit.
scene direction: buffy small smile
buffy: okay.
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: i can do this.
scene direction: buffy gets up
scene direction: giles gets up
giles: i know you can.
scene direction: they walk a few steps toward the door, then buffy whirls around to face giles.
buffy: please?
giles: no.
scene direction: he takes her shoulders, turns her around. she takes a deep breath.
buffy: okay.
scene direction: buffy giles nods
buffy: here we go.
scene direction: pause. then she begins to walk again. giles follows, still with hands on her shoulders.
scene direction: buffy reciting
buffy: early to bed, early to rise, balanced breakfast, hospital corners. it's a new beginning.
scene change: cut to the main room as buffy and giles emerge.
buffy: discipline. authority. order.
scene direction: we hear giggling.
scene direction: buffy looks into the main room and discovers xander, anya, and willow lying on the floor head-to-toe forming a triangle. dawn stands in the middle. all are giggling. dawn sees buffy and stops laughing.
scene direction: buffy storms forward
buffy: what is this? i thought i told you to do your homework!
scene direction: the others gets up from the floor.
dawn: i was.
scene direction: buffy folds her arms
buffy: please don't lie to me.
dawn: i'm not.
scene direction: giles, xander, and anya move away into the shop.
willow: we were acting out a geometry problem, 'cause i read this really neat article that said kids learn math better if you, you stimulate their, uh, visual learning pattern. you know, using the right side of the brain instead of just the left?
scene direction: buffy still looks stern and unamused.
scene direction: willow os
willow: stuff like that.
buffy: uh-huh.
willow: so we made a triangle with our bodies, and that's when i called xander obtuse, and he got really grumpy
scene direction: willow smiling; dawn giggles
willow: and then dawn said we were "acute" triangle, and, well, hilarity ensued.
buffy: right. well, you know what i think? i think maybe dawn should do her homework at home.
scene direction: both willow and dawn stop smiling, look disappointed.
dawn: b-but it was working. i was really learning.
buffy: please get your stuff.
scene direction: dawn scowls, looks at willow.
dawn: fine. don't listen to me.
scene direction: dawn goes to get her stuff
scene direction: willow walking over to buffy
willow: please don't be grouchy with her. who among us can resist the allure of really funny math puns?
buffy: it's really important that dawn finishes her schoolwork right now.
scene direction: shot of dawn listening to them from the table.
scene direction: willow os
willow: yeah, i know, but...
scene direction: dawn turns back to her stuff as willow glances at her.
willow: we were having good clean educational fun, and then all of a sudden it was all gloom and doom and the outlawing of human triangles.
scene direction: buffy firmly
buffy: it's *really* important that dawn finishes her schoolwork right now.
willow: i know it is, and i'm a big fan of school. you know me! i'm like,
scene direction: willow sings
willow: "go school! it's your birthday!" or something to that effect.
buffy: look, willow, i know that you mean well, but you just don't understand, and there's no way that you could.
willow: i do so understand, it ... you're stressed out.
buffy: i'm more than stressed out. i'm freaked out.
willow: yeah, well, maybe you need a break to de-freak. hey, you could go to the world's culture fair if you want to, with me and tara.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: i don't think so.
willow: come on. you can bring dawn. it'll be fun. good, educational-type fun in a discipline-y sort of way.
buffy: i can't do it, will. don't worry. it's not like i don't have a life. i do. i have dawn's life.
scene direction: buffy walks over to the table where dawn stands, holding her stuff. buffy picks up her bag without breaking her stride.
buffy: ready?
scene direction: dawn looks sullen, turns and falls into step behind buffy. she casts a look over her shoulder at willow as they leave.
scene change: cut to close shot of glory in her apartment.
glory: so it's her. under our noses all this time. i like the detail work those monks did.
scene direction: glory smiling
glory: quirks, foibles, passions ... it's all so cute, so ... human. you know?
scene direction: we see that she's sitting on the sofa with the three monks standing before her. they all nod and smile.
glory: pretty convincing really.
scene direction: glory ponders
glory: but not convincing enough.
scene direction: she slowly stands up and looks each demon in the eye.
glory: you all know your assignments.
scene direction: glory smiles widely
glory: i think it's time to collect the key.
scene direction: she whirls around and begins to walk out. the monks follow her in single-file.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on willow and tara's dorm room. tara is looking in the closet for clothing while willow sits on the bed putting on her shoes.
willow: it wasn't anything really. buffy was just a little crabby at dawn about her schoolwork.
tara: well, it's understandable.
scene direction: tara puts something on the bed, turns back to close the closet door
willow: yeah, sure it is. i'd totally be blowing off classes if i were in dawnie's shoes.
scene direction: tara smiles
tara: sweetie, you wouldn't blow off a class if your head was on fire.
scene direction: tara goes over to the sink
tara: and, i meant buffy.
scene direction: willow putting on earrings
willow: buffy what?
tara: understandable about the crabby. she has to look after dawn now.
scene direction: willow putting on a jacket
willow: yeah, but not in a miss minchin's select seminary for girls way. i mean, she's just gonna make dawnie more rebellious.
tara: i had to deal with my brother's problems after ... i mean, you can't really know what it's like to-
willow: yeah, i know that.
scene direction: tara makes a noise of displeasure, frowns, sits on the bed next to willow.
tara: i, i didn't mean to-
willow: no, i just ... i ... i know i can't know what you went through.
scene direction: willow tara frowns
willow: but i just ...
scene direction: willow fake laugh
willow: it's no big.
tara: i made you mad.
willow: no. no.
tara: all i meant was-
willow: no, it's okay. this whole buffy thing, let's just forget it.
tara: no, please. i mean, i mean, tell me if i said something wrong, otherwise i know i'll say it again. probably often and in public.
willow: no, i was snippy gal. it's just ... i know i can't ... on some level ...
scene direction: willow sighs
willow: it's like my opinion isn't worth anything because i haven't been through ...
scene direction: willow sighs
willow: i didn't lose my mom, so i don't know.
tara: well ... i-i'm not the expert. i mean, i've only lost the one.
scene direction: willow gives a sympathetic smile. tara looks anxious.
scene direction: tara uncertainly
tara: do ... i act like ... the big knowledge woman?
scene direction: wide shot of the two of them sitting on the bed, facing each other, with at least a foot separating them.
scene direction: willow weakly
willow: no.
tara: is that no spelled y-e-s?
willow: s-o-r-t of.
scene direction: willow tara frowns
willow: i mean, i just feel like the-the junior partner. you've been doing everything longer than me. you've been out longer ... you've been practicing witchcraft way longer.
tara: oh, but you're way beyond me there! in just a few- i mean ... it frightens me how powerful you're getting.
scene direction: willow frowns
willow: that's a weird word.
scene direction: tara nervous smile
tara: "getting"?
willow: it frightens you? *i* frighten you?
scene direction: tara jumps up from the bed
tara: that is *so* not what i meant. i meant i-impresses - impressive.
willow: well, i took psych 101. i mean, i took it from an evil government scientist who was skewered by her frankenstein-like creation before the final, but i know what a freudian slip is.
scene direction: tara looks upset.
willow: d-don't you trust me?
tara: with my life.
willow: that's not what i mean.
tara: can't we just go to the fair?
willow: i don't feel real multicultural right now.
scene direction: willow stands up
willow: wh ... what is it about me that you don't trust?
tara: it's not that. i worry, sometimes. you're, you're changing so much, so fast. i don't know where you're heading.
willow: where i'm heading?
tara: i'm saying everything wrong.
willow: no, i think you're being pretty clear. this isn't about the witchcraft. it's about the other changes in my life.
tara: i trust you. i just ...
scene direction: tara looks down
tara: i don't know where i'm gonna fit in ... in your life when...
willow: when ... i change back? yeah, this is a college thing, just a, a little experimentation before i get over the thrill and head back to boys' town.
scene direction: pause.
willow: you think that?
tara: should i?
willow: i'm really sorry that i didn't establish my lesbo street cred before i got into this relationship. you're the only woman i've ever fallen in love with, so ... how on earth could you ever take me seriously?
scene direction: she walks toward the door.
tara: willow, please!
willow: have fun at the fair.
scene direction: willow storms out. tara stands there looking upset.
scene change: cut to exterior summers house, day. a couple of glory's demons walk up the front porch, over to the side window, kneel down and look in the window. inside we see the living room. dawn is sitting at the table while buffy stands.
scene direction: the camera moves in through the window. buffy is folding dish towels on the table while dawn is doing homework.
buffy: okay, so, i-i think the next step is to make a chart. a schedule.
scene direction: buffy dawn gives her an angry look
buffy: i'll write down all the things you're supposed to do, and when you have to do them, and then i'll leave a box next to it, which you can mark with an x when you've accomplished the task.
scene direction: dawn stares at her with a sullen expression.
buffy: what? you want gold stars?
scene direction: buffy rolls her eyes
buffy: okay. you can have gold stars.
dawn: i don't want gold stars.
scene direction: dawn scoffs
dawn: i don't want any of this.
scene direction: she puts down her pencil and crosses her arms. buffy pauses in her towel-folding.
buffy: i'm just trying to give you a normal life.
scene direction: dawn sarcastic
dawn: well, good luck.
scene direction: dawn returns to her schoolwork. buffy stands and stares at her. dawn pauses, looks up warily.
dawn: what?
scene direction: dawn rolls eyes, sits back
dawn: what am i doing wrong now?
buffy: this is for real, dawn.
dawn: no, it's not. i'm not real, so why would my exciting graph of chores be real? who cares if a key gets an education anyway?
scene direction: dawn slams her textbook shut, folds her arms again
buffy: it's a chart. not a graph. and you are real.
dawn: yeah? those monks put grades k through eight in my head. can't we just wait and see if they drop nine in there too?
scene direction: buffy slams her hand down on the table, making dawn jump and wince.
buffy: damn it, dawn. this is serious.
dawn: why? why should i care about any of this?
buffy: because they'll take you away!
scene direction: beat. long shot of the two of them facing off across the table. dawn unfolds her arms and looks scared.
dawn: take me away? what do you mean?
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: they'll take you away from me. that's what your principal told me when you weren't in the room. if i can't make you go to school, then i won't be found fit to be your legal guardian.
scene direction: she resumes folding towels. dawn absorbs this for a moment.
dawn: where would i go?
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: i don't know. dad maybe ... or foster care ... i, i didn't really want to ask.
scene direction: dawn pause, scoffs
dawn: you could've told me that.
buffy: i just did.
scene direction: buffy continues folding as dawn sits there.
scene change: fade to a park, day. balloons and paper lanterns are hanging from trees. people are walking around, some in costume, some holding carnival prizes. a group of cheerleaders waving pompoms. a group of chinese men dancing with a large paper dragon. flags of many nations hang from a wire above. soft sad music over faint crowd noises.
scene direction: shot of tara sitting alone on a park bench, at the far right of it, looking sad.
scene change: cut to magic shop. giles walks over to the counter carrying two cups of tea, goes behind the counter where anya is doing paperwork, gives her a mug. pan across to a corner where willow sits on the floor, beside a bookcase, amongst a pile of cushions, looking sad. sad music continues.
scene direction: cut back to tara on the bench. she looks idly off to her left.
scene direction: shot of tara's right hand lying on the bench. another hand appears and slips into tara's. the fingers entwine together.
scene direction: tara smiles, looks down at the entwined hands, then looks up at the face and stops smiling. the sad music stops.
glory: is this seat taken?
scene direction: tara gasps in fear.
scene direction: cut back to magic shop. willow walks around the corner toward the counter. giles is opening a box.
giles: i hope this isn't a return. everyone wants petrified hamsters and they're never happy with them.
scene direction: willow leans on the counter still looking sad. giles notices her expression.
giles: you all right?
willow: yeah.
giles: ah yes, because your good mood is both obvious and contagious.
willow: i had a fight with tara. it was awful.
giles: oh, i'm sorry.
scene direction: giles takes the box and walks toward the shelves behind the counter
scene direction: willow os
willow: me too.
giles: you two don't quarrel much, do you?
willow: never. until today.
giles: well, now it's over.
scene direction: willow very upset
willow: over? how can it be over? i just found her!
giles: the quarrel is over.
scene direction: willow quieter
willow: oh. yeah.
giles: uh, you'll feel better when you've made your apologies and you'll know that you can fight without the world ending.
scene direction: giles walks toward the rear door
giles: i know it all seems bleak now, but as they say, this too...
scene direction: giles opens the door to discover one of glory's demons, slook, who was listening at the door. slook falls into the room.
giles: ...shall pass.
scene direction: willow and anya both stare.
scene change: cut to giles holding the demon by the ear, dragging him into the shop and throwing him into a chair. willow and anya rush over.
anya: wow!
giles: now, what do we have here?
anya: oh, he's one of those things that work for glory!
giles: yes. how helpful.
slook: i do indeed work for the god. let me go if you do not wish to incur her anger.
giles: well, she's not here. what a marvelous opportunity for you and me to talk.
slook: i will not betray glorificus. i will never talk, no matter what heinous torture-
giles: actually, you're talking quite a lot, just not about the right things. tell us why you're here.
slook: no words shall pass my lips that will bring peril to glorificus.
scene direction: giles doesn't take his eyes off the demon, but points with his hand.
giles: girls, get the twine that's on the counter, let's tie him up.
scene direction: willow and anya turn away. we hear some sort of rustling noise and slook begins to sob. the girls turn back in amazement.
slook: no, no! i'll tell you! anything! please! whatever you want! just, i'll, anything!
scene direction: the girls walk back over.
anya: what happened?
giles: he changed his mind.
slook: i'm ... i'm supposed to watch. we're watching the slayer's people ... while glory fetches the key.
scene direction: everyone looks alarmed.
willow: glory knows who the key is?
giles: oh god.
scene direction: giles removes his glasses
anya: we've got to call buffy.
slook: too late. too late. glorificus will find the witch, and there's nothing you can do to stop her.
anya: witch? what do you mean?
scene direction: willow horrified
willow: tara!
scene direction: willow turns to run out.
slook: she's the new one among you. it wasn't hard to figure out. the glorious one will have found her by now.
scene direction: giles yells
giles: willow, wait! i'll go with-
willow: no! call buffy a-and go look in tara's room, i'm gonna check the fair.
scene direction: she runs out.
scene direction: cut back to the fair. glory is still sitting beside tara and holding her hand as tara looks at her with fear.
glory: oh, this is nice. just hangin' out, just us girls. you like that sort of thing, don't you?
scene direction: shot of their entwined hands. glory squeezes and we hear bones cracking. tara winces in pain.
tara: aah...
glory: don't ... make a sound.
scene direction: tara gasps and whimpers as glory looks around at the other fair attendees. the people walk around not seeming to notice anything.
glory: nah. they won't help you. i'd kill them. you know that.
scene direction: tara looks around desperately. shot of three bicycle cops riding away. overhead shot of the fair.
glory: there's no one here that can stop me.
scene direction: tara continues gasping and panting.
glory: i'll kill her
scene direction: glory shot of a random woman
glory: and ... and them
scene direction: glory shot of a random couple
glory: i'll kill him, and her and her,
scene direction: glory laughs
glory: and it'll all be your fault.
scene direction: shot of their hands. glory's nails dig in and tara's blood begins to drip out between their fingers.
scene direction: tara continues whimpering softly in pain and breathing erratically.
glory: kinda funny, isn't it? all these people here and ... no one who can do a thing. not a person who can help you.
scene direction: tara whimpers and turns her head to look at glory.
glory: but that's people for ya. they're pretty worthless.
scene direction: glory watches some people go by
glory: but keys, on the other hand ... keys are worth a very lot.
scene direction: glory smiles and brings their clenched hands up to lick off some of the blood. then she makes a disgusted face and spits.
glory: you lying little tramp! you're not the key, you're nothing! just another worthless human being!
tara: i didn't-
glory: i hate being lied to. it makes me feel so betrayed.
scene direction: glory considers
glory: hey!
scene direction: glory turns back to tara
glory: you wanna make it all better?
scene direction: tara looks at her with fear.
glory: if you tell me who the key really is ... i'll let you go.
scene direction: tara looks alarmed. glory gives her hand another squeeze and she whimpers again as we hear more bones crack.
glory: think about it. you think your hand hurts? imagine what you'd feel with my fingers wiggling in your brain.
scene direction: glory tara looks very scared
glory: it doesn't kill you. what it does ... is make you feel like you're in a noisy little dark room ...
scene direction: glory glory frowns and fidgets uncomfortably
glory: naked and ashamed ... and there are things in the dark that need to hurt you because you're bad ... little pinching things that go in your ears ...
scene direction: glory tara begins to cry
glory: and crawl on the inside of your skull. and you know ... that if the noise and the crawling would stop ... that you could remember how to get out.
scene direction: glory contemplates this as tara continues to cry quietly. then glory turns to look at tara again.
glory: but you never, ever will.
scene direction: glory squeezes her hand again and tara gives another cry of pain.
glory: who ... is ... the key?
scene direction: tara forces herself to stop crying and look glory in the eye, saying nothing.
glory: fine. let's get crazy.
scene direction: glory caresses the side of tara's face with her other hand. tara whimpers and tries to pull her face away. blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on an overhead shot of the fair.
scene direction: willow os
willow: tara!
scene direction: we see willow running through the crowds.
willow: tara!
scene direction: shot of tara and glory on the bench. willow runs toward them.
willow: by force of heart and mindful power, by waning time and waxing hour ...
scene direction: glory puts her hand on tara's head. people keep walking past and blocking them from view so it's difficult to tell what's happening.
willow: i echo diana, um, when i decree ... uh, what is it, what is it?
scene direction: shot of glory with both her hands on tara's temples.
willow: no! no!
scene direction: the light begins to stream out as glory's fingers enter tara's head. both tara and glory cry out.
scene direction: willow reaches the edge of the path but is blocked by the chinese dragon people and has to stop.
willow: that she i love must now be free!
scene direction: shot of tara with glory's fingers still in her head and the light streaming out as tara makes a pained face. people continue walking past and blocking her from view. shot of willow straining to see around the people.
willow: tara!
scene direction: the crowd clears momentarily and we see tara sitting alone on the bench with her head lolling to one side.
willow: no!
scene direction: willow runs over and sits on the bench, grabs tara by the shoulders. tara doesn't react or look at her.
willow: tara, tara, are you okay?
tara: it's dirty. it's all dirty. and all over me!
scene direction: she begins brushing at her stomach as if to brush off dirt.
tara: dirty. dirty. i'm bad. bad.
scene direction: tara whimpering
scene direction: willow crying
willow: tara. oh, i'm so sorry. i'm so sorry.
scene direction: willow pulls tara's head down onto her shoulder and rocks her gently.
scene direction: overhead shot of them on the bench. people continue to walk by all around them.
scene change: cut to interior hospital. giles is looking at some x-rays of a hand that are posted on the wall. he removes his glasses and wipes his eyes as he turns and the camera pans across to reveal anya and xander, then tara sitting on the edge of an exam table wearing a hospital gown. she looks straight ahead with a glazed expression. her hand is bandaged. we see willow sitting beside her.
willow: can she go home now?
scene direction: we see the same doctor who fired ben earlier.
doctor: unfortunately, no. hospital policy dictates we keep her for the night.
willow: but does she have to? i-i can take care of her at home.
tara: it's poisoned.
scene direction: tara to willow, matter-of-factly
tara: why don't i tell you that? it, it has to be checked, though.
scene direction: willow looks sad. tara looks confused.
doctor: she your sister?
tara: i-i-it has to be verified, of course. anyone can tell you that. of course.
scene direction: tara looking from one person to the next
tara: of course, of course.
scene direction: willow staring at tara
willow: she's my everything.
doctor: well, you can get her released first thing in the morning. but she's gotta spend one night in the psych ward. just for observation. we'll keep an eye on her, do a couple basic tests, then you can take her home. does that sound fair?
scene direction: doctor willow nods uncertainly
doctor: well, sit tight then, and i'll send a nurse by in a few minutes to pick up tara.
scene direction: the doctor leaves as anya and xander give willow concerned looks. willow stands and brushes hair back from tara's face.
xander: man, words cannot express how much i hate this place.
giles: it's dreadful.
anya: it's like communism.
scene direction: buffy enters.
buffy: hey. will, i'm so sorry.
scene direction: she hugs willow, looking over her shoulder at tara.
scene direction: shot of tara staring vaguely at nothing.
scene direction: buffy and willow pull apart. willow has tears in her eyes. she looks at tara who gives her a huge smile.
tara: they kill mice.
scene direction: shot of willow with tears on her cheeks.
buffy: tara.
scene direction: buffy hugs tara, who doesn't react. buffy pulls back slowly and looks at willow.
buffy: i'm sorry it took me so long, but dawn's safe with spike, so i-i can stay as long as you need.
scene direction: willow puts her hand over tara's non-bandaged hand.
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: i'm so scared.
scene direction: buffy puts her hand on willow's cheek.
spike voiceover: nothin' to be worried about, kid.
scene change: cut to spike leading dawn through his underground cavern. spike moves a little slowly and with a slight limp. dawn holds a flashlight.
spike: no one's gonna hurt you.
dawn: oh yeah? same no one who did that to you?
spike: what, these? it's just a few bruises.
scene direction: we see that spike is still looking very bruised and battered from his encounter with glory in "intervention".
spike: nothin' to write home about.
scene direction: he stops and turns back to see dawn's nervous expression.
spike: hey, chin up, platelet. don't get scared. maybe glory doesn't wanna kill you, maybe it's something-
dawn: worse?
scene direction: spike doesn't respond, walks a little more. dawn sits down on a rock. spike turns to watch her as she sits there looking scared, facing away from him. he slowly walks toward her.
spike: hey.
scene direction: he puts out a hand to touch her hair, but pulls it back quickly as she turns back toward him.
dawn: you wanna know what i'm scared of, spike? ... me.
scene direction: dawn tearfully
dawn: right now, glory thinks tara's the key. but i'm the key, spike. i am. and anything that happens to tara ... is 'cause of me. your bruises, your limp ... that's all me too. i'm like a lightning rod for pain and hurt.
scene direction: dawn crying
dawn: and everyone around me suffers and dies. i ... must be something so horrible ... to cause so much pain ... and evil.
scene direction: spike firmly
spike: rot.
scene direction: dawn teary
dawn: what do you know?
spike: i'm a vampire. i know somethin' about evil. you're not evil.
dawn: maybe ... i'm not evil. but i don't think i can be good.
scene direction: dawn looks up at spike with a hopeful expression
scene direction: spike considers
spike: well, i'm not good, and i'm okay.
scene change: cut to tara in a wheelchair. a nurse is trying to settle her into the chair. tara pushes at the nurse's hands trying to stop her.
scene direction: tara upset
tara: don't! please don't with that treachery!
scene direction: she calms down slightly as the nurse goes around behind the wheelchair and begins to wheel her out. tara looks up at willow.
tara: i told the cat. and now i beg my mother sitting all alone.
willow: bye, tara. i'll see you tomorrow. i love you.
scene direction: tara whimpers as the nurse wheels her out. we see her good hand reaching back toward willow.
scene direction: willow watches her go, tries to run after her but xander steps into her path.
xander: willow. no. it's just for one night.
scene direction: xander we see buffy in the background leaning against the wall
willow: yeah, i-i know, but ... it's a whole night. i don't think i can sleep without her.
anya: you can sleep with me.
scene direction: everyone looks at anya.
anya: well, now that came out a lot more lesbian than it sounded in my head.
scene direction: buffy comes forward
buffy: will, you just have to rest. okay? right now there's nothing you can do.
scene direction: willow ponders
willow: yes there is.
scene direction: willow walks out the door
buffy: no. no way.
scene direction: buffy chases willow out into the hallway and stops her.
buffy: you cannot even think about taking on glory.
willow: you saw what she did to tara. i can't let her get away with it.
buffy: no. you *have* to let her get away with it. even i'm no match for her, you know that.
willow: but maybe i am.
scene direction: she turns to go but buffy grabs her arm.
buffy: you're not. and i won't let you go.
willow: this is not your choice. it's mine.
buffy: this is not the time.
willow: when, buffy? when is? when *you* feel like it? when it's someone *you* love as much as i love tara? when it's dawn, is that it?
buffy: when we have a chance. we'll fight her, when we have a chance. you wouldn't last five minutes with her, willow. she's a god.
scene direction: willow shakes her head sadly
willow: fine. i'll wait.
buffy: it's the only way.
scene direction: willow skeptical
willow: yeah.
scene direction: willow starts to walk away.
buffy: can i do anything?
scene direction: willow not turning back
willow: just let me be alone.
scene direction: buffy watches her go with a concerned expression.
scene change: cut to interior magic shop. willow bursts in at a run. she runs straight to the stairs that lead up to the loft where the more dangerous stuff is kept. she goes up the stairs, takes a small black leather back from the top of a bookshelf, kneels, and begins pulling stuff off the shelves. she opens a drawer and takes out a jeweled dagger, puts it in the bag. she pulls books and vials off the shelves and puts them in the bag. she shoves books off the shelves every which way, finally pulls out one very large old book and puts it on the floor in front of her.
scene direction: shot of the book cover reading darkest magick. the book has a metal lock holding it shut.
scene direction: willow grabs a small axe from the shelf and hits the lock with it. the lock breaks and the book's pages flip open. the pages continue to flip past as if blown by a wind.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on glory's apartment. glory is coming down the stairs followed by her three minions. she walks a little unsteadily.
glory: you know, i think i'm a little buzzed from eating that witch! what a mind she has. mmm, nummy treat.
jinx: is your grace not the slightest bit concerned about-
glory: what, about the slayer? don't be stupid. i know i'm closing in. the key's as good as mine.
scene direction: glory the demons all smile
glory: girl like buffy's got just so many friends. all i gotta do it rip through 'em one by one until i finally...
scene direction: she stops as the walls begin to shake and rattle. knick-knacks on the walls fall over and smash to pieces. glory and the demons look around in confusion. the lights darken.
glory: did anybody order an apocalypse?
scene direction: the door suddenly flies open, revealing willow floating several inches above the floor. her hair is blown back by an unseen wind.
willow: kali, hera, kronos, tonic...
scene direction: she floats into the room toward glory as the minions flee.
willow: air like nectar, thick as onyx...
scene direction: we see that her eyes are completely black.
willow: cassiel by your second star...
glory: uhh. it's the lover.
scene direction: glory walks forward
glory: that's so cute.
willow: hold mine victim as in tar.
scene direction: the air around glory shimmers and she suddenly cannot move forward. she looks at willow in surprise.
willow: i ... owe ... you ... pain!
scene direction: blue lightning flashes out of willow's hands toward glory. glory screams and clutches her shoulders.
scene change: cut to buffy and dawn sitting together in spike's cavern. spike stands a little ways off.
dawn: it's all my fault.
buffy: no.
scene direction: buffy brushes dawn's hair back
buffy: sweetheart, it is *not* your fault.
scene direction: dawn teary
dawn: how's willow?
scene direction: buffy continues stroking dawn's hair
buffy: she was looking to go all payback-y on glory for a minute. but i cooled her down a little. actually a lot.
spike: so she's not gonna do anything rash then.
buffy: no. i explained that there was no point.
scene direction: spike walks a little closer
spike: mm-hmm.
buffy: what?
spike: you - so you're saying that a ... powerful and mightily pissed-off witch ... was plannin' on going and spillin' herself a few pints of god blood until you, what, "explained"?
scene direction: buffy frowns, looks at dawn and back at spike.
buffy: you think she'd ... no. i told willow it would be like suicide.
spike: i'd do it.
scene direction: buffy stares at him.
scene direction: spike looks down at the ground
spike: right person. person i loved.
scene direction: spike looks at buffy
spike: i'd do it.
scene direction: buffy continues to stare at him as if not getting it.
dawn: think, buffy. if glory had done that to me.
scene direction: buffy glances at spike, jumps up and races out.
scene direction: cut back to glory's apartment.
willow: shatter.
scene direction: the mirrors in the room all shatter and the glass flies toward glory, slicing her dress into shreds but not harming her.
glory: is that it? is that the best you can do? you think i care about all this, the apartment, the clothes?
scene direction: she pulls off the shreds of her dress, revealing a black negligee underneath. she backhands willow, who flies backward and topples over a sofa, landing on the floor.
glory: now, sucking on your girlfriend's mind?
scene direction: willow lifts her head. her eyes are still all black.
glory: that was something to treasure.
scene direction: willow gets to her feet, wearing a very angry expression. there's a small trickle of blood coming out of her mouth and down her chin.
scene direction: shot of the black bag on the floor. it slides across the floor toward willow, who turns to look at it. the bag opens of its own accord.
scene direction: glory amused
glory: what's this? bag of tricks?
scene direction: a bunch of daggers fly up out of the bag.
willow: bag of knives.
scene direction: the daggers fly toward glory, who bats them all aside. one buries itself in the wall.
willow: spirit of serpents now appear.
scene direction: glory picks up a coffee-table and throws it at willow, knocking her down again. willow braces herself up on her hands and looks back at glory.
willow: hissing, writhing, striking near.
scene direction: a snake appears out of the carpet glory's standing on and winds itself around her leg.
scene direction: shot of willow still on the floor, panting and watching.
scene direction: glory shakes her foot and the snake disappears in a puff of smoke. glory walks forward.
glory: now this is getting weak.
scene direction: she grabs willow by the throat and pulls her to a sitting position.
glory: and so are you, honey. aren't ya?
scene direction: willow spits in her face. glory looks startled.
scene direction: glory grabs willow's arm and drags her across the floor to where one of the daggers is lying. glory scoops it up and continues dragging willow.
willow: no!
scene direction: glory pulls willow up and shoves her against the wall, holding her by the throat.
glory: know what they used to do to witches, lover?
scene direction: glory brings up her other hand with the dagger
glory: crucify 'em.
scene direction: glory pulls her arm back to stab with the knife, but buffy appears and grabs glory's wrist.
buffy: they used to bow down to gods.
scene direction: glory smiles in delight. buffy kicks her in the stomach and she lets go of willow, who falls to the floor.
scene direction: buffy twists glory's arm aside, punches her.
buffy: things change.
scene direction: buffy cartwheels across the floor to kick glory in the face, punches her a few times, kicks her again, spins around to punch but glory blocks. buffy does a flip and kicks glory in the face, comes back upright and throws another couple of punches which glory evades. glory pins buffy's arm behind her back and throws her over a sofa.
glory: that witch barely slowed me down.
scene direction: glory glares at buffy. buffy kicks the sofa, which flies forward and pins glory against the wall.
scene direction: buffy runs over to willow, helps her up.
scene direction: glory shoves the sofa aside and stalks toward them. buffy begins to lead willow out.
scene direction: willow over her shoulder
willow: thicken.
scene direction: the air around glory thickens, rendering her immobile. buffy and willow run out.
scene direction: glory shouting
glory: this isn't over, you hear me? it isn't over!
scene direction: she watches them go with an annoyed sigh.
scene change: cut to exterior dorm building, day.
scene change: cut to inside tara's room. willow, tara, dawn, and buffy sit on the bed. tara's hand is still bandaged and she still stares blankly in front of her. willow has one hand on tara's knee. buffy has a paper bag. she takes something out of it.
buffy: chicken salad?
willow: right here.
scene direction: buffy hands willow the sandwich and continues taking wrapped sandwiches from the bag.
buffy: eggplant, that's me ... salami with ...
scene direction: buffy looks at the sandwich
buffy: ew, peanut butter? dawn.
scene direction: buffy gives it to dawn
dawn: yeah, like eggplant is normal. it's what, half egg, half plant? 'cause that's just unnatural.
scene direction: buffy continues unpacking sandwiches along with plastic bags full of grapes.
willow: what's tara got?
dawn: oh.
scene direction: dawn holds out a sandwich
dawn: i ... got her tuna. does she like...?
scene direction: willow draws tara's attention to the sandwich. buffy stops unpacking to look at them.
scene direction: dawn gently
dawn: tara?
scene direction: dawn unwraps the sandwich to show tara. tara anxiously looks to willow, then back at the sandwich.
tara: plastic and their six sisters. six sick sisters.
scene direction: tara anxiously
tara: willow?
willow: it's okay. let's just start slow today. um, buffy, could i have that?
scene direction: buffy hands her a cup of applesauce and a plastic spoon. willow opens it.
willow: here you go.
scene direction: willow spoons some applesauce into tara's mouth. tara eats it uncertainly.
willow: that's my girl.
scene direction: buffy looks on with a sad expression as willow continues feeding tara.
dawn: can i help?
scene direction: willow nods, gives dawn the cup and spoon. tara gives willow an anxious look but accepts the food from dawn. willow looks over at buffy.
buffy: what are you gonna need?
willow: i don't know. they gave me a lot of stuff to ... keep her calm.
scene direction: they both look at tara, still being fed by dawn.
scene direction: willow quietly
willow: they said i might have to restrain her at night. but ... sometimes she's fine. she looks at me, and ... she's fine.
scene direction: tara makes an unhappy face.
buffy: i'm sorry i couldn't-
willow: it's okay. i can do this. i'm gonna take care of her. even if she never...
scene direction: dawn looks up at this.
scene direction: willow softly
willow: she's my girl.
scene direction: buffy looks sympathetically at willow, looks at dawn and plays with a lock of dawn's hair.
buffy: i understand.
scene direction: willow nods
willow: i know you do.
scene direction: they give each other small smiles.
scene direction: willow to tara
willow: hear that, baby?
scene direction: willow tara looks at her
willow: you're my always.
scene direction: willow kisses tara on the forehead. tara smiles.
scene direction: suddenly the entire outside wall smashes to pieces, exposing them to the outside. dawn and buffy jump up in alarm. sunlight streams in.
scene direction: glory appears in the window, which is now just a broken frame with shards of glass hanging in it.
glory: i told you this wasn't over.
tara: no. the place is cracking! it's cracking! cracking, no, no, no!
scene direction: dawn looks anxiously at tara as willow tries to calm her.
dawn: no, tara, it's okay.
scene direction: tara gasping, staring at dawn
tara: oh, look at that, look at that. the light!
scene direction: buffy is staring at glory but turns to look at tara at this.
tara: oh, it's so pure! such pure green energy!
scene direction: dawn gasps and looks over at glory in fear.
scene direction: glory begins to smile.
scene direction: tara still staring at dawn
tara: oh, it's so beautiful.
scene direction: glory's smile widens.
scene direction: dawn looks fearfully at buffy.
scene direction: buffy turns to glare at glory.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producer: joss whedon.