scene direction: buffy calling
buffy: hey, mom.
scene direction: she turns, sees some flowers on the table beside the door.
buffy: ooh.
scene direction: she opens the card that came with the flowers. shot of the card, which reads "thank you for a lovely evening. see you soon? brian".
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: still a couple of guys gettin' it right.
scene direction: she turns to call up the stairs, putting down her jacket.
scene direction: buffy calls
buffy: hey. flower-gettin' lady. want me to pick dawn up from school?
scene direction: in the background, on the living room sofa, we can see someone or something, but it's out of focus; the focus is on buffy in the foreground.
scene direction: buffy frowns, looks down the hall toward the kitchen.
buffy: mom?
scene direction: she turns and looks in the living room.
buffy: what are you doing?
scene direction: she walks into the living room, stops.
scene direction: shot of joyce lying on the sofa. her eyes are open, staring sightlessly at the ceiling. one arm hangs loosely over the edge of the sofa. she does not move or blink.
scene direction: buffy quieter
buffy: mom?
scene direction: buffy even quieter
buffy: mom?
scene direction: buffy very quietly
buffy: mommy?
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on the summers dining room. christmas lights are lit around the walls and candles are burning all around. on the left side of the table are buffy, anya, and xander. on the right are dawn, willow, and tara. giles sits at one end, joyce at the other end. as the scene opens, buffy and joyce stand up.
joyce: i think we're just about ready for pie.
scene direction: joyce and buffy begin clearing dishes
xander: then i'll be pretty much ready for barf.
buffy: xander!
xander: no, no,
scene direction: xander to joyce
xander: barf from the eating. 'cause all was good, and too much goodness...
joyce: i'm taking it as a compliment.
giles: yes, uh, everything was delicious.
scene direction: giles stands to help clear
anya: yes, i'm going to barf too.
scene direction: joyce smiles wryly as she carries a pile of dirty dishes past anya toward the kitchen.
scene direction: joyce sarcastic
joyce: everyone's so sweet.
scene direction: joyce, giles, and buffy exit. xander looks to see if joyce is angry, then turns back to the table.
xander: how you doing there, will, are you in the vomit club too?
scene direction: willow groaning
willow: i had too much nog.
scene direction: tara sympathetic
tara: oh, baby, want me to rub your tummy?
scene direction: tara to the others
tara: she likes it when i ...
scene direction: tara pauses, quietly
tara: stop explaining things.
dawn: my nog tastes funny. i think i got one with rum in it.
willow: that's bad.
xander: yeah, now santa's gonna pass you right by, naughty booze hound.
scene direction: tara and dawn giggle.
willow: santa always passes me by. something puts him off. could be the big honkin' menorah.
scene direction: tara to dawn
tara: oh, did you write him a letter?
xander: what'd you ask for?
dawn: um, guys, hello, puberty? sorta figured out the whole no santa thing.
anya: that's a myth.
dawn: yeah.
anya: no, i mean, it's a myth that it's a myth. there is a santa claus.
scene direction: everyone looks surprised.
xander: the advantage of having a thousand-year-old girlfriend.
scene direction: xander turns to anya
xander: inside scoop.
tara: there's a santa claus?
anya: mm-hmm. been around since, like, the 1500s. he wasn't always called santa, but you know, christmas night, flying reindeer, coming down the chimney -- all true.
scene direction: dawn smiles hopefully
dawn: all true?
scene direction: buffy re-enters and begins clearing more dishes.
anya: well, he doesn't traditionally bring presents so much as, you know, disemboweled children, but otherwise...
tara: the reindeer part was nice.
scene direction: the camera follows buffy as, smiling, she carries dishes into the kitchen. we see giles doing something by the counter and joyce taking something out of the oven.
joyce: damn it! i hate this oven. it burnt.
scene direction: she puts a pie on the kitchen island.
buffy: oh, no, it's just blackened, you know, it's, it's cajun pie.
scene direction: giles turns and we see he's holding a bottle of wine.
scene direction: giles to joyce
giles: shall i open another?
joyce: oh, do you think we dare?
buffy: as long as you two stay away from the band candy, i'm cool with anything.
scene direction: joyce and giles look embarrassed. giles clears his throat, grabs the bottle opener and moves off, out of the picture frame. buffy begins examining the burnt pie.
scene direction: joyce quietly to buffy
joyce: you are a demon child.
buffy: i live to torment you, is that so wrong?
joyce: a daughter's duty, i suppose.
scene direction: joyce kisses buffy on the forehead
buffy: look, all we have to do is just cut off a little bit of the burnt...
scene direction: as she begins trying to cut the pie, it falls off the island and onto the floor.
scene direction: cut back to present day. shot of joyce's face as she lies on the sofa, her eyes open and unseeing.
scene direction: buffy rushes over and begins shaking joyce by the shoulders.
buffy: mom! mom! mom mom mom- she repeats the word many times and then shouts it in joyce's face, getting no reaction.
scene direction: buffy gets up, panting and sniffling. the camera follows her into the kitchen where she picks up the phone and dials 911. she fidgets anxiously while it rings.
911 operator: 911 emergency.
buffy: hello?
911 operator: do you have...
buffy: my mom, she, she's not breathing.
911 operator: is she conscious?
scene direction: buffy moving back into living room
buffy: no. i-i-i can't, she, she's not breathing.
911 operator: ok, i need you to give me your address.
buffy: what?
911 operator: i'm gonna send an ambulance over.
buffy: si-sixteen thirty rivelo, it-it's a house, rivelo near hadley.
911 operator: i'm sending a unit right away. are you alone in the house?
buffy: yes.
911 operator: well, did you see what happened, did she fall?
buffy: no, no, i-i came home and she-what should i do?
911 operator: do you know how to administer cpr?
scene direction: buffy upset
buffy: no, i don't remember.
911 operator: okay, it's very simple. you wanna tilt your mother's head back. cover her mouth with yours, and breathe into her mouth.
scene direction: the operator continues talking but buffy drops the phone to her side and moves toward joyce.
buffy: i know this. i know this. god.
scene direction: she puts the phone down and takes hold of joyce's legs, pulls joyce down across the sofa so that she lies flat.
buffy: i can do this. okay. okay.
scene direction: she tilts joyce's head back, opens her mouth, pinches joyce's nose shut and breathes into joyce's mouth twice. then she begins chest compressions.
buffy: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight...
scene direction: she makes a face, does two more breaths and resumes compressions.
buffy: one, two, three...
scene direction: buffy we hear a cracking noise
buffy: oh! oh god.
scene direction: she reaches for the phone.
buffy: i, are you there? i, i broke something.
911 operator: hello?
buffy: it cracked.
911 operator: is she breathing?
buffy: no.
911 operator: paramedics should be there in a moment. you might have cracked a rib. it's not important.
scene direction: buffy putting her hand on joyce's
buffy: she's cold.
scene direction: beat.
911 operator: the body's cold?
buffy: no, my mom! sh-should i make her warm?
911 operator: no ... if she's not responding to cpr, the best thing is to wait for the paramedics, okay?
scene direction: buffy angry
buffy: when will they be here?
911 operator: they're very nearby.
scene direction: buffy drops the phone to her side and looks up at the window, stands up. bright sunshine streams in the window. it's totally quiet except the faint sound of the 911 operator's voice. buffy brings the phone back up to her ear.
scene direction: buffy very quietly
buffy: i have to make a call.
scene direction: she presses the hang-up button.
scene direction: lingering shot of the telephone number pad.
scene direction: buffy hits a speed dial button. we hear it dialing, ringing.
scene direction: giles on phone
giles: hello?
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: giles. you have to come.
scene direction: giles on phone
giles: buffy?
buffy: she's at the house.
scene direction: she turns the phone off, turns to look over her shoulder. she walks to the front door, opens it and looks out. we hear a siren and the sound of the ambulance coming to a stop. buffy goes back inside, leaving the door open.
scene direction: buffy walks back into the living room.
scene direction: zoom in on joyce lying on the sofa.
scene direction: zoom in on buffy staring at her as we hear the ambulance doors close and footsteps approaching.
scene direction: pan down joyce's torso. she wears a knee-length skirt but it has bunched up a bit and her slip is showing.
scene direction: buffy glances anxiously toward the door, goes over and pulls joyce's skirt down to cover the slip. she turns and goes back to the doorway separating the living room from the foyer.
buffy: she's in here.
scene direction: two male paramedics enter, carrying equipment. buffy watches anxiously as they put their stuff down and check joyce. the first one puts his hand on joyce's throat.
paramedic 1: i'm getting no pulse.
paramedic 2: let's lay her out.
scene direction: they lift joyce onto the floor. paramedic 1 has a stethoscope and a flashlight.
scene direction: paramedic 2 to buffy
paramedic 2: how long's she been like this?
buffy: i found her, a-a few, few minutes.
scene direction: paramedic 1 checks joyce's eyes. paramedic 2 attaches some wires to joyce's chest.
paramedic 2: was she conscious?
buffy: no.
paramedic 1: i'm bagging her.
buffy: what?
paramedic 2: we're gonna intubate. just trying to get her to breathe, all right?
scene direction: buffy nods. paramedic 1 reaches for more equipment.
paramedic 2: this your mother?
buffy: yes.
paramedic 2: she have any serious physical health problems, any history of heart disease?
buffy: no.
scene direction: pan across paramedic 1 by joyce's head, to paramedic 2 by joyce's waist, to the ekg machine showing a flat line.
buffy: i mean, there, there was a tumor,
scene direction: buffy paramedic 1 inserting a tube in joyce's mouth
buffy: a brain tumor, but she had an operation and she's fine now. she, she's been fine.
scene direction: shot of joyce's face with an oxygen mask covering it. paramedic 1 holds the mask in place while paramedic 2 is doing chest compressions. the machine makes a rhythmic breath-like sound.
scene direction: paramedic 2 checks joyce's wrist for a pulse, resumes chest compressions.
scene direction: suddenly joyce begins to cough and gasp. paramedic 1 removes the mask.
paramedic 1: i got her! my god, we got her!
paramedic 2: let's get her on the truck now. i'm calling ahead.
scene direction: the two paramedics stand up as buffy rushes forward. joyce opens her eyes and looks at her.
scene direction: paramedic 1 faintly in background
paramedic 1: never brought one back this stiff.
joyce: buffy.
buffy: i'm here.
scene direction: shot of the top of an ambulance, lights flashing, siren wailing as it rushes down the street.
scene change: cut to buffy and joyce in the ambulance with the paramedics.
paramedic 1: it's a miracle. that's what it is, a beautiful miracle.
scene change: cut to joyce in a hospital bed, dawn sitting on the bed beside her, buffy and a doctor standing next to the bed.
doctor: good as new.
joyce: buffy, thank god you found me in ti- zoom in on buffy as joyce says this.
scene direction: cut back to the living room as we realize this was all in buffy's imagination. she is still standing there watching the paramedics work. utter silence except the sound of paramedic 2 continuing cpr.
scene direction: shot of the ekg machine still showing flatline.
scene direction: paramedic 2 stops cpr and turns to paramedic 1.
paramedic 2: she's cold, man.
scene direction: shot of buffy staring wide-eyed.
paramedic 2: call it.
scene direction: paramedic 1 looks grim, begins to pack up his stuff. buffy's lower lip begins to tremble.
scene direction: paramedic 2 stands up slowly and walks toward buffy. he appears blurry (from buffy's perspective).
paramedic 2: i'm sorry.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: wha-what do we do now?
paramedic 2: i'm sorry, but i have to tell you that...
scene direction: buffy staring up at him wide-eyed.
scene direction: paramedic 2 os
paramedic 2: ...your mother's dead.
scene direction: buffy stares.
paramedic 2: it looks like she did die a good while before you found her. there's .. nothing you could have done.
scene direction: in the background we see paramedic 1 packing up, removing the wires from joyce's chest.
buffy: w-what...
scene direction: the camera shows paramedic 2 from around the nose area to mid-chest; his eyes and the top of his head are off the top of the screen.
paramedic 2: i'm guessing it must have been a aneurysm or some clotting. some complication from surgery. she probably felt...
scene direction: buffy staring at him with tears in her eyes.
paramedic 2: ...very little pain. i'm gonna call it in. the coroner's office will come by and take her in, and they'll determine the cause of death conclusively.
scene direction: buffy continues to stare at him. we hear the ambulance radio.
radio: dispatch 7, we have a 206, what's your status?
paramedic 1: we're moving.
radio: location is beaumont and 9th, your gig is on the street, go now.
paramedic 1: okay. we gotta fly.
paramedic 2: all right.
scene direction: paramedic 2 to buffy
paramedic 2: i'm gonna call this right away.
scene direction: all of this takes place offscreen while the camera focuses on buffy's stunned expression. now it switches again to the shot of the paramedic's lower face.
paramedic 2: now the coroner's office may take a while. in the meanwhile, i think you should sit. have a glass of water, and try not to disturb the body.
scene direction: buffy still staring up at him.
paramedic 2: do you need anything, is there someone you can call?
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: someone's coming.
scene direction: in the background paramedic 1 walks to the doorway carrying his stuff.
paramedic 1: let's go.
scene direction: paramedic 2 turns to pick up his stuff, turns back to buffy.
paramedic 2: i'm very sorry for your loss.
buffy: thank you.
scene direction: he exits, leaving the front door open. buffy walks to the door, still holding the phone, and looks out.
buffy: good luck.
scene direction: sound of the ambulance doors closing, engine starting, driving away.
scene direction: buffy turns and walks back inside, still holding the phone, still looking dazed. she looks toward joyce. we hear the ambulance siren starting up.
scene direction: buffy turns and walks toward the kitchen, putting down the phone on a table. she gets to the back of the living room just before the kitchen door. suddenly she falls to her knees and vomits on the floor. we hear the sound of wind chimes over the retching noises. buffy is at the very bottom of the screen with the majority of the picture showing the wall, a small side table, and the open window in which the wind chimes are hanging.
scene direction: buffy stands up slowly, her back to the camera. she puts a hand on her stomach, walks through the kitchen to the back door, opens it and looks out. we hear birds singing, distant voices, ordinary city noises. closeup on buffy's face, sweaty and pale. she stand there for a moment, then turns back inside, leaning on the door for support. she looks at the kitchen island, goes over to it and takes a bunch of paper towels off the roll. leaving the back door open, she goes back into the living room and puts the paper towels over the spot on the carpet where she vomited.
scene direction: lingering shot of the paper towels on the carpet as the moisture begins to seep through.
scene direction: giles os
giles: buffy!
scene direction: buffy turns. giles stands in the front door, panting.
giles: what is it? is it glory?
scene direction: buffy stands
buffy: i'm waiting. the, the coroner's coming.
giles: what?
scene direction: giles takes a few steps inside
scene direction: buffy looks down, thinking
buffy: i have to tell dawn. she's at school.
scene direction: buffy looks up
buffy: i'll go there.
giles: i'm not sure...
scene direction: giles looks to his left and sees joyce for the first time.
giles: oh god.
scene direction: he rushes toward her, out of the frame.
buffy: no. no. don't. no, it's too late.
scene direction: the camera moves down the hallway (buffy's pov) as she rushes after giles.
scene direction: giles os
giles: joyce?
buffy: they're, they're coming for her, no, no, we're- buffy rounds the corner and finds giles bending over joyce, shaking her.
giles: joyce!
scene direction: buffy desperate
buffy: we're not supposed to move the body!
scene direction: giles turns to look at her. buffy looks aghast, puts her hand to her mouth as she realizes what she said.
scene direction: giles gets up quickly, goes over to buffy and puts his arms around her. buffy stares in shock past giles's shoulder at joyce.
scene direction: shot of joyce lying on the carpet. her eyes are still open.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on overhead shot of joyce being zipped into a body bag. we only see the hands of whoever's doing it. they pull the zipper up over her face.
scene change: cut to dawn leaning against a wall, crying.
dawn: oh, god. i can't believe it.
scene direction: girl os
girl: it's not that bad.
scene direction: dawn disbelieving
dawn: how can you say it's not that bad?
scene direction: girl (os) i just don't think it's that big a deal.
scene direction: sound of a toilet flushing.
dawn: kevin berman called me a freak in front of everybody.
scene direction: dawn shrugs
dawn: no, that's no big deal.
scene direction: a door behind her opens. we see that she's standing in a bathroom. the door that opened was a toilet stall door. another girl (lisa) comes out of the stall and walks forward.
lisa: he didn't say you were a freak.
scene direction: we see that it's actually a mirror behind dawn; lisa is in front of her, reflected in the mirror. lisa goes over to the sinks, which dawn is standing next to, and begins washing her hands.
dawn: forget it.
lisa: he just said you were ... freaky. which, you know, freaky can be ... sort of cool.
dawn: oh yeah. real cool.
scene direction: dawn teary
dawn: i'm a suicidal head-case.
lisa: you know it was kirsty. she was telling people how you were into cutting yourself, and how you- dawn: that's such a lie! i got cut. by accident. one time.
scene direction: dawn walks into the toilet stall and takes some toilet paper to wipe her face. lisa takes some paper towels from a dispenser to dry her hands.
dawn: now kevin thinks i'm a- lisa: well, that was when you were wigging out about your family, and of course kirsty's gotta turn everything into a story.
scene direction: dawn comes out of the stall wiping her eyes. we see her reflected in the mirror next to lisa.
lisa: she was telling people that you were adopted.
dawn: what a prima bee-yotch. i swear, if i could make her head explode using only the power of my mind? that's what i'd be doing right about now.
scene direction: lisa nods. dawn wipes her eyes more and sighs.
scene direction: dawn teary
dawn: great. now i look like a wet rat.
lisa: yeah, you know you can't go out there looking all cry-faced. that'll just give kirsty more ammo.
scene direction: a bell rings.
dawn: you know? my big sister could really beat the crap out of her.
scene direction: dawn lisa nods
dawn: i mean, really really.
scene direction: dawn blows her nose
dawn: okay. what do you think?
scene direction: dawn turns to face lisa
dawn: can i show my face?
lisa: you're good to go. we're gonna be late anyway.
scene direction: they walk off.
scene change: cut to the two girls coming out of the bathroom, backpacks on their shoulders. shot of a typical school hallway full of kids.
lisa: kirsty alert.
scene direction: they pass a couple of blonde girls who smirk at them.
scene direction: kirsty sweetly
kirsty: hey dawn.
dawn: hey.
kirsty: how you doing, you okay?
dawn: good, thanks for asking.
scene direction: dawn and lisa continue walking, rolling their eyes.
scene direction: dawn sotto voce
dawn: bee-yotch.
scene direction: a bell rings again.
scene direction: dawn and lisa enter a classroom. the walls are glass from the ceiling to about three feet off the ground, so we can see into the room from the hallway. it's an art classroom with rows of easels set up. dawn stares wide-eyed. shot of a cute boy (kevin) at the back of the classroom.
teacher: okay. remember, we're not ... drawing the object.
scene direction: dawn and lisa go to the back and take easels on either side of kevin. dawn looks nervously at him.
teacher: we're drawing ... the negative space ... around the object.
scene direction: we see the teacher standing beside the model, which is a 2- or 3-foot high statue of a naked woman.
scene direction: the students begin to draw as the teacher's voice continues.
scene direction: kevin not looking at dawn
kevin: hey.
scene direction: dawn trying to be cool
dawn: oh. hey kevin.
teacher: ...and then give me a sense of the spaces around ... the space in-between.
kevin: what's goin' on?
dawn: um, negative space.
scene direction: dawn nervous smile
scene direction: kevin smiles
kevin: yeah, what's that all about?
scene direction: dawn scoffs
dawn: yeah.
scene direction: kevin looks at her paper
kevin: that's pretty good.
scene direction: dawn smiles
dawn: thanks.
scene direction: behind kevin, we see lisa holding up her pad of paper, on which she has written "he wants you!" dawn gives her friend a scolding look, then turns back to her drawing.
kevin: so i heard you, like, had a freak-out and cut yourself.
dawn: uh, no, not even. it was a whole ... it was so not...
kevin: i've felt like that before.
scene direction: kevin dawn looks surprised
kevin: things get so crazed, you know, you just feel like you wanna do something ... extreme.
dawn: yeah. i just ... i had a lot of intense stuff going on.
scene direction: dawn kevin smiles, returns to his drawing
dawn: a lot of people don't understand that. pain.
kevin: yeah.
dawn: then kirsty's gotta blab it everywhere, 'cause she's- kevin: kirsty, man. it's like she thinks, "i'm so hot, everybody should just bow down before me." and i'm like, whatever.
scene direction: dawn smiles and laughs. behind her we see buffy in the hallway, looking at dawn.
dawn: she's so superficial. everything's always about clothes, or who likes who, and...
scene direction: dawn buffy enters the classroom, goes over to the teacher
dawn: there's just way more important stuff going on. there's a lot of ... crucial ... you know ... stuff.
kevin: yeah.
dawn: uh, this one time in history, uh,
scene direction: dawn buffy begins walking down the aisle toward dawn
dawn: she had this book called annals of history, and she didn't know how to say the word "annals"
scene direction: dawn kevin looks surprised
dawn: so she kept saying- buffy: dawn.
scene direction: dawn turns, still smiling. buffy stares at her.
scene direction: dawn stops smiling.
buffy: i have to talk to you.
scene direction: dawn looks apprehensive.
scene direction: shot of a hand drawing a piece of charcoal across paper.
scene direction: shot of the teacher watching.
dawn: um...
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: what?
scene direction: shot of lisa looking over. shot of the statue.
dawn: can it wait? i'm in the middle of a class.
buffy: i know. please come with me.
scene direction: shot of kevin and lisa watching.
scene direction: dawn puts down her charcoal and walks with buffy toward the door.
dawn: i thought mom was picking me up.
scene direction: buffy closes the classroom door behind them as they exit into the hall.
dawn: what's going on? something's going on.
buffy: let's go outside.
dawn: no. tell me what's going on.
scene direction: shot of kirsty and her friends in the hallway, looking over.
buffy: it's ... bad ... news.
scene direction: dawn crosses her arms anxiously over her chest.
dawn: well, what is it? what happened?
scene direction: shot through the window of the classroom. lisa and kevin are watching. lisa begins to walk forward.
buffy: it's bad. please, can we- dawn:
scene direction: buffy loudly
buffy: where's mom?
scene direction: buffy teary
buffy: mom ... had an accident. or, um...
scene direction: lisa walks toward the window, staring.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: ...something went ... wrong from the tumor.
scene direction: closeup on dawn's face. she has tears in her eyes.
dawn: is she okay? is she ... but she's okay? but ... it's, it's serious, but...
buffy: dawn...
scene direction: shot from inside the classroom. we see the two of them in the hallway through the glass. dawn slowly begins to cry as the news sinks in. she puts her hand over her mouth. we can hear her, but very faintly, as we hear it through the glass.
scene direction: dawn faintly
dawn: no.
scene direction: she shakes her head and backs away from buffy.
scene direction: dawn faintly
dawn: no, it's not true. no, you're a liar, she's fine!
scene direction: dawn crumples to the floor sobbing.
scene direction: shot of kevin watching, looking away. shot of the teacher.
scene direction: the teacher and the other students move toward the glass and watch as buffy kneels, trying to comfort dawn.
scene direction: pan across to dawn's half-finished sketch of the statue.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: overhead shot of joyce lying on a metal table. hands wearing rubber gloves come into the picture and unbutton her blouse, then begin to cut away her camisole with a pair of scissors. joyce's eyes are still open.
scene direction: shot of tara's face, a window behind her.
scene direction: shot of willow standing in her dorm room next to the closet. she wears an undershirt and is holding a blouse on a hanger, but she's staring at it without really seeing it. willow doesn't move. in the foreground we see tara's shoulder and the back of her head.
scene direction: shot of anya sitting in the passenger seat of a car, looking out the window as the car moves down city streets.
scene direction: shot of xander driving the car.
scene direction: total silence through all of this.
scene direction: overhead shot of the car pulling up beside some other cars that are parked by the sidewalk. pan across the sidewalk and up. we see a grassy lawn with some people walking around. the camera pulls back and we see that it's shooting out through willow's dorm room window. as we pull back, we find tara standing by the window, looking out. she turns.
tara: i think they're here.
scene direction: cut back to willow still frozen holding the shirt. she reacts, returning from her thoughts, looks at the shirt, turns and tosses it onto the bed. we see a pile of clothing there already.
scene change: cut to xander and anya in the car.
xander: do you wanna come up?
scene direction: anya looks around, looks at him.
scene direction: anya softly
anya: you're double-parked.
scene direction: xander opens his door
xander: let 'em give me a ticket.
scene direction: they both get out.
scene direction: cut back to the dorm room. willow takes two more shirts out of the closet and turns to tara.
willow: what do you think? the, the, the purple, right? 'cause, 'cause it's somber?
scene direction: shot of tara standing by the window.
willow: no. no, it's too depressing, i-it's like, um, a ... funeral, god, i ...
scene direction: willow holds up the other shirt, which is yellow
willow: well, this is, this is cheerier, maybe, i-i wanna be cheery, like, like everything is normal?
scene direction: tara just watches.
willow: no, that's rude, that's, that's disrespectful. "la la la! i don't care!" she tosses both blouses on the bed with a sigh.
willow: if i had that blue one -
scene direction: willow turns back to the closet, then back
willow: jo-joyce really liked the blue one. she told me one time. you, you sure it's not in your room?
scene direction: tara takes a few steps closer
tara: i-i-i could look again.
willow: no, no, i-i, i should, i should wear the purple
scene direction: willow picks up the purple blouse from the bed
willow: the purple, i, i, i think the purple, it's just that it's so, i don't know,
scene direction: willow looks at tara
willow: i-it doesn't mean something bad?
tara: i think it's, um ... royal. purple means ... royalty.
scene direction: willow tears running down her face
willow: well, i can't see buffy at the morgue and be all royal! "oh, i'm the king of everything, i'm better than you!" i have to be supportive, i, buffy needs me to be supportive, i...
scene direction: she begins crying as tara looks on with concern. willow picks up another shirt.
willow: god, why do all my shirts have such stupid things on them?
scene direction: willow tosses it back down
willow: why can't i just dress like a grownup? can't i be a grownup?
tara: shh.
scene direction: tara comes over and puts her hands on willow's shoulders, rubbing her shoulders and neck.
tara: shh, darling.
scene direction: willow crying
willow: i can't do this.
scene direction: tara kisses her on the forehead, then on the mouth. willow returns the kiss. then tara leans her forehead against willow's.
tara: we can do this.
scene direction: they both nod. tara continues rubbing willow's shoulders.
willow: okay. we can be there for buffy. and dawn.
scene direction: willow crying
willow: little dawn.
tara: we can be strong.
willow: strong like an amazon?
tara: strong like an amazon, right.
scene direction: they both smile slightly.
willow: okay.
scene direction: willow nods, sniffles
willow: i wish i had the blue.
scene change: cut to anya and xander climbing the stairs inside the dorm.
anya: so ... what do we do?
xander: i'm not sure. we'll, uh, talk to giles.
scene change: cut to anya and xander coming out of the stairwell, walking down the dorm hallway. various students are roaming around or standing in the halls talking.
anya: xander, what will *we* do? what will *we* be expected to do?
scene direction: xander looks at her but doesn't answer. he walks up to the door of room 213. the door is slightly ajar. xander knocks, pushes it open and enters. we see tara against the far wall. willow appears from around the corner. she wears a greenish shirt with a red cardigan over it.
xander: hey.
scene direction: xander and willow hug while tara and anya stand there looking uncomfortable. they pull apart.
xander: how you doing?
scene direction: willow shrugs, shakes her head and rolls her eyes, hugging herself.
xander: i know the feeling.
willow: i'm afraid i'm gonna start to cry again.
scene direction: anya softly
anya: xander cried at the apartment. it was weird.
willow: i-i-it's a, it's a thing we do.
scene direction: overhead shot of the four of them standing there. each is in some way holding onto him- or herself (arms folded, etc.).
anya: what's going to happen?
willow: well, i ... i guess we're gonna ... meet them at the morgue,
scene direction: willow whispers
willow: that's where they were ... taking ... her.
tara: um, giles said that he, he was gonna go with joyce, and buffy was gonna go to ... the school to ... tell dawn.
scene direction: xander looks upset, closes his eyes.
xander: god.
tara: do you know how to, how to get- xander: yeah. it's at the hospital, it's a wing. we do morgue time in the scooby gang.
scene direction: willow looks anxiously at tara.
willow: i have to change.
scene direction: she removes her cardigan, tosses it aside, goes off to get another shirt.
xander: what else did giles say?
scene direction: tara shrugs, shakes her head
tara: not a lot.
xander: are they sure this was ... natural? i mean, glory.
tara: uh, giles was pretty sure that it wasn't, wasn't her.
xander: but, i mean, she said she was gonna come after buffy's family.
tara: i don't- xander: i mean, we should be going after her. i mean, she coulda done it, and, and, covered her tracks.
scene direction: anya looks confused. willow reappears, now wearing a pink turtleneck.
willow: why would she? she'd want us to know.
scene direction: xander looks upset.
xander: i'll tell you what it is. it's the frickin' doctors. i mean, they just let her out, you know? clean bill of health. dig a hole in your skull. here's a band-aid. next!
scene direction: closeup of tara looking concerned and upset.
scene direction: willow os
willow: xander...
xander: they should have checked her over, they should have had her in. well, don't we have enough monsters in this town, the doctors gotta help 'em out?
willow: xander, i-i don't think it was ... any ... it just happened.
scene direction: xander looks around at the three of them
xander: things don't happen!
scene direction: xander frowns
xander: i mean ... they don't *just* happen.
scene direction: xander shot of tara looking concerned
xander: somebody...
scene direction: xander shot of willow
xander: i mean, somebody's got...
willow: okay.
scene direction: willow puts up her fists
willow: let's go. come on, you and me. come on.
scene direction: xander stares at her, then sighs. he walks over to her, kisses her on the forehead. tara watches sadly.
xander: you know i can't take you.
willow: damn straight.
scene direction: xander moves back a little.
anya: are we gonna see the body?
scene direction: willow shocked
willow: what?
scene direction: xander looks annoyed, turns away.
anya: are we gonna be in the room ... with the dead body?
scene direction: willow hugs herself, uncomfortably
willow: i don't know. no.
tara: but i guess we should take over patrolling and all that.
xander: yeah.
willow: oh, yeah.
tara: for however long.
xander: you know it.
scene direction: willow looks at herself unhappily, then at tara.
willow: i can't wear this.
scene direction: she turns to change again, turns back.
willow: i, i really should have the other. joyce liked it so.
tara: do you think you coulda left it in the laundry room?
scene direction: willow frowns, nods hopefully
willow: maybe.
tara: i'll go check. i'll, i'll just be one minute.
xander: we're cool.
scene direction: tara walks out of the room.
scene direction: anya walks around the room a bit, aimlessly, then turns back.
anya: are they gonna cut the body open?
scene direction: willow horrified
willow: oh my god! would you just ... stop talking? just ... shut your mouth. please.
anya: what am i doing?
willow: how can you act like that?
anya: am i supposed to be changing my clothes a lot?
scene direction: anya looks from willow to xander
anya: is that the helpful thing to do?
xander: guys...
willow: the way you behave- anya: nobody will tell me.
willow: because it's not okay for you to be asking these things!
scene direction: anya desperate
anya: but i don't understand!
scene direction: willow and xander look at her in surprise.
scene direction: anya crying
anya: i don't understand how this all happens. how we go through this. i mean, i knew her, and then she's,
scene direction: anya sniffling
anya: there's just a body, and i don't understand why she just can't get back in it and not be dead anymore. it's stupid. it's mortal and stupid.
scene direction: anya still teary
anya: and, and xander's crying and not talking, and, and i was having fruit punch, and i thought, well, joyce will never have any more fruit punch ever, and she'll never have eggs, or yawn or brush her hair, not ever, and no one will explain to me why.
scene direction: she stops and puts her hand over her face, crying.
scene direction: willow has tears in her eyes too.
scene direction: xander goes over to anya but she pushes him away, goes and sits down in a papasan chair by the window. xander goes back to the doorway.
scene direction: willow to anya
willow: we don't know ... how it works...
scene direction: willow anya wiping her face with her hands
willow: or why.
scene direction: willow goes and sits on the bed.
scene direction: xander paces back and forth in front of the open door. in the hallway behind him we see various students passing by. there's total silence.
scene direction: shot of willow sitting on the bed.
scene direction: shot of anya sitting in the chair. there are a bunch of pillows on the chair and one is poking her in the back. she turns around and pulls it out. it's a stuffed animal with a blue sweater wrapped around it. right beside the chair is a clothes bureau with the drawers slightly open. anya tucks the blue sweater into one of the drawers and sits back holding the stuffed animal.
scene direction: shot of willow staring at the floor.
scene direction: suddenly there's a loud banging noise. willow and anya jump, look up.
scene direction: shot of xander in the doorway with his left hand stretched out, obscured by the wall.
xander: sorry, sorry, some ... pent-up...
scene direction: willow getting up
willow: xander...
scene direction: willow walks around the corner and discovers xander's hand is buried in a hole in the wall.
willow: where did your hand go?
xander: as i was saying, some frustration, and now, uh ... i appear to be stuck.
anya: my god.
scene direction: anya ducks under his arm to get to the other side
anya: is your hand okay?
xander: pretty much. i, i'm really sorry.
scene direction: willow examines the hole where xander's fist has broken through the wall.
scene direction: anya angry
anya: you could have hit an electrical...
scene direction: anya gestures vaguely
anya: thing!
xander: and once again with the sorry.
scene direction: anya crouches down to look at the hole from underneath.
willow: did it make you feel better?
scene direction: willow anya looks up at xander
xander: for a second there.
willow: a whole second?
xander: in my defense, some crappy wallmanship.
willow: yeah, you can hear everything next door.
scene direction: willow and anya pull at xander's arm trying to free it.
xander: who did the drywall in this place?
willow: i always forget to ask.
scene direction: tara appears in the doorway.
tara: did i miss something?
anya: xander decided that he blames the wall.
willow: can you ... turn your wrist?
xander: hold on.
scene direction: he twists his arm and pulls it out of the wall. his knuckles are covered in blood. all the girls go "ooh" in concern.
xander: it's okay.
scene direction: xander flexing his hand
scene direction: anya looks pensively at xander's hand.
scene direction: shot of the bloody hand as xander flexes his fingers. pan up to tara's face.
tara: it hurts.
scene direction: xander looks at her. she gives a small sympathetic smile.
willow: here, wash it off.
scene direction: anya leads xander over to the sink.
scene direction: anya to willow
anya: band-aids?
willow: underneath.
scene direction: anya looks under the sink for band-aids as xander washes his hand. in the foreground, tara turns to willow.
tara: i couldn't find it.
scene direction: willow shrugs
willow: it doesn't matter. we should get there.
tara: yes.
willow: i, i wanna be there for buffy.
scene direction: xander os
xander: you're right.
scene direction: shot of tara and willow facing each other in the foreground. in the background, xander with his back to the camera, as anya tends to his hand.
xander: the avengers gotta get to the assembly.
scene direction: xander turns to face the camera, with a towel wrapped around his hand
xander: we'll go. we'll deal. we'll help. that's what we do. we help buffy.
scene direction: he puts the towel down and goes out. willow and tara follow. anya follows behind.
anya: how are we going to help?
scene direction: they all go out. anya closes the door behind her. the camera stays on the closed door. after a moment the door opens again and willow rushes in.
scene direction: shot of willow's red cardigan on the table by the window where she tossed it earlier. she grabs it and leaves again. we hear the sound of the door closing again as the camera pans across the table to the window. outside, on the street below, a police officer is putting a ticket on xander's car.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on an overhead shot of joyce lying on the table. she is (presumably) naked with a sheet covering her up to the shoulders. she is pale and her eyes are still open. a pair of hands, wearing bloody rubber gloves, is attaching a small bandage to the side of joyce's forehead. then the hands remove the gloves.
scene direction: pull out to find dr. kriegel (same doctor from "listening to fear" and "into the woods") pulling the sheet up to cover joyce's face. he turns off a lamp that's hanging over her, turns away. we see that he's wearing a rubber smock over his blue hospital scrubs. he removes the smock and puts it in a hazardous-waste can as he moves out of the morgue, picking up a clipboard. he moves into an office area, puts the clipboard on a desk, picks up a white coat and puts it on as he exits the morgue, closing a door behind him.
scene direction: he walks down a dark hallway, passes an orderly pushing a cart. the hallway is full of folded-up gurneys, boxes, cartons, etc. dr. kriegel emerges into the hospital proper. he comes around a corner and sees a waiting room where giles, dawn, buffy, and the scoobies are gathered.
scene direction: tara hugs dawn as xander hugs buffy.
xander: if there's anything we can do.
dawn: glad you're here.
scene direction: xander hugs giles as willow hugs buffy.
scene direction: willow pulls back to look buffy in the face.
willow: love you so much.
buffy: i know.
scene direction: dawn to tara
dawn: they're not telling us anything.
scene direction: giles is looking around when suddenly anya hugs him. he looks surprised, then hugs her back. over her head he notices the doctor.
giles: doctor?
scene direction: everyone looks over at the doctor. he walks forward. buffy, giles, and dawn come forward to meet him. the others stay behind in a little group.
dr. kriegel: okay, i've examined your mother's body.
dawn: can we see her?
buffy: dawn, not now.
dr. kriegel: the on-site report seems more or less accurate. your mother did have what looks like an aneurysm. a sudden hemorrhaging from a ruptured arterial vessel near the, uh ... where the tumor was removed.
buffy: shouldn't we have known about that, that ... was a danger?
dr. kriegel: sometimes these things are detectable, and sometimes they're not.
scene direction: close shot of buffy's face.
scene direction: dr. kriegel os
dr. kriegel: joyce was aware of the possibility of a rupture, and the effects. she didn't even get on the phone, so clearly this was very sudden.
scene direction: shot of dawn staring at the floor.
scene direction: dr. kriegel os
dr. kriegel: she, uh, may have felt a little nausea, and probably passed out as it happened.
scene direction: close shot of buffy's face.
scene direction: dr. kriegel os
dr. kriegel: i doubt there was much pain, and ... even if someone had been by her side...
flash: joyce in the living room, buffy by her side. buffy takes joyce's hand in concern as joyce sits on the sofa.
joyce: my head...
buffy: mom?
flash: buffy, joyce, and paramedic 1 in the ambulance.
flash: dawn, joyce, buffy, and the doctor in the hospital.
scene direction: (the above two flashes are the same as from earlier in the episode)
scene direction: dr. kriegel os
dr. kriegel: ...it's doubtful that this could have been dealt with in time.
scene direction: cut back to closeup of buffy's face.
scene direction: shot of the doctor looking sympathetic, looking over at giles.
scene direction: giles nods
giles: uh, thank you, doctor.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: are you sure...
scene direction: closeup of buffy's face.
buffy: ...that there wasn't a lot of pain?
scene direction: dr. kriegel nods
dr. kriegel: absolutely.
scene direction: the doctor's mouth continues to move, but what we hear is what buffy is thinking, not what he's actually saying.
scene direction: dr. kriegel in buffy's thoughts
dr. kriegel: i have to lie to make you feel better.
scene direction: closeup of buffy staring at the doctor.
giles: what, uh,
scene direction: giles clears throat
giles: what, uh, needs to be done now?
dr. kriegel: well, there, uh, there'll be some forms, and some decisions you'll need to make.
giles: uh, buffy, why don't you let me handle those as much as i can.
buffy: please.
scene direction: dr. kriegel to buffy
dr. kriegel: we will need you to ... sign a couple of release forms. giles: yes, thank you, doctor.
scene direction: the doctor nods, starts to move away.
scene direction: giles to buffy
giles: i'll, uh, figure out which ones you need to see.
buffy: we'll be here.
scene direction: giles goes off with the doctor as the others approach.
xander: what'd the doctor say?
buffy: nothing. uh, it's, you know, it's what we thought, the tumor.
willow: why don't we sit down?
scene direction: willow takes both buffy and dawn by the hands and leads them to a sofa. she and buffy sit. tara sits on buffy's other side. anya, xander, and dawn remain standing.
buffy: giles says he's gonna go over the paperwork.
xander: man, if there's one day they should *not* give you homework.
willow: dawnie, do you wanna sit?
scene direction: dawn shakes her head.
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: i don't think we're gonna have to be here very long.
dawn: what about...
scene direction: dawn stops
buffy: what about what?
dawn: nothing. i have to pee.
buffy: do you want someone to go with you?
scene direction: dawn sullen
dawn: no. i still remember how to pee.
scene direction: dawn turns away
buffy: do you know where it is?
dawn: yeah.
scene direction: she walks off.
buffy: i think maybe she's ... mad at me or something.
willow: 'cause you were the one that told her?
xander: how'd she take it?
buffy: meltdown. she just wouldn't believe me. i still don't think she does.
scene direction: anya a little too loudly
anya: i wish that joyce didn't die...
scene direction: everyone looks at her.
scene direction: anya more quietly
anya: ...because she was nice. and now we all hurt.
scene direction: xander embarrassed
xander: anya, ever the wordsmith.
scene direction: anya looks hopefully at buffy.
scene direction: buffy to anya
buffy: thank you.
scene direction: xander looks a little surprised.
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: do you want anything? something to eat, or ... soda?
buffy: honestly, i ... couldn't tell.
willow: well, i-i think you should try to eat something.
buffy: yeah, maybe dawn could use a snack.
willow: i'll, i'll find something.
scene direction: willow gets up
willow: xander, do you have any money?
xander: we'll come with.
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: we'll be right quick.
scene direction: willow, xander, and anya go off.
scene direction: shot of buffy and tara sitting on the sofa next to each other. they look at each other, then away.
scene direction: buffy softly, speaking to the floor
buffy: i'm sorry ... you have to go through all of this.
tara: you don't have to worry about me.
buffy: everybody wants to help.
scene direction: buffy tara looks at her
buffy: i don't even know if i'm ... here.
scene direction: buffy tara looks away
buffy: i don't know what's going on. never done this.
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: that's just an amazingly dumb thing to say. obviously ... i've never done this before.
scene direction: beat.
scene direction: tara softly
tara: i have.
scene direction: buffy looks over at her.
tara: my mother died when i was seventeen.
buffy: i didn't know. i'm sorry.
tara: no, no, i didn't mean to ...
scene direction: tara sighs
tara: i'm only telling you this because ... i know it's not m-my place, but ...
scene direction: tara pauses
tara: there's things ... thoughts and reactions i had that ... i couldn't ... understand ... or even try to explain to anyone else.
scene direction: tara buffy looks down, pensive
tara: thoughts that ... made me feel like i was losing it ... or, like i was some kind of ho-horrible person. i know it's different for you ... because it's always different, but ... if you ever need...
scene direction: she trails off. they sit there looking at each other. then they both look down at the floor.
scene direction: buffy looks back up at tara.
buffy: was it sudden?
tara: what?
buffy: your mother.
tara: no.
scene direction: tara thinks
tara: yes.
scene direction: tara pauses
tara: it's always sudden.
scene change: cut to dawn coming out of the bathroom. she looks around the corner into the waiting room, sees buffy and tara talking. pan over to the door that leads to the morgue. a red sign on the door reads "authorized personnel only." dawn goes over to that door.
scene change: cut to inside the hallway. dawn opens the door and enters. it's fairly dark. she looks behind her, begins to walk slowly down the hallway. utter silence.
scene direction: overhead shot of dawn walking down the hall.
scene direction: pan down the hall from dawn's point of view. she can see through the second door to where the doctor's desk is.
scene change: cut to inside the morgue, camera showing dawn's face through the window in the second door.
scene change: cut to dawn's pov, shot of the interior of the morgue with several sheet-covered bodies lying on metal tables.
scene direction: dawn opens the door, goes inside, turns and bolts the door shut. she turns back and walks slowly past the row of bodies covered by sheets, toward the one at the end. complete silence.
scene direction: dawn walks up to the last table, farthest from the door. she stares at the shape on the table, closes her eyes, opens them. she reaches out a hand.
scene direction: closeup on dawn's apprehensive face.
scene direction: closeup on the sheet-covered head.
scene direction: dawn pulls her hand back without removing the sheet, takes a step back, swallows with difficulty.
scene direction: behind her, on the farthest table (closest to the door), a body suddenly sits up and removes the sheet covering it. dawn doesn't notice this. still complete silence.
scene direction: closer shot of the person on the table sitting up. it's a male vampire. he looks around, sees dawn, smiles slightly and puts the sheet aside, swinging his legs over the side of the table.
scene direction: long shot of dawn's back. the camera is at floor-level and in the foreground we see the vampire's bare leg. dawn is in the background of the shot, still staring at the sheet-covered body.
scene direction: the vampire's other leg comes into view as he walks unsteadily toward dawn.
scene direction: closeup of dawn turning, seeing him, beginning to draw breath for a scream.
scene change: cut to buffy and tara sitting on the sofa. pan over to xander, willow, and anya returning with their arms full of soda cans, junk food, and coffee cups.
willow: we panicked.
scene direction: buffy looking nervously at all the stuff
buffy: uh-huh.
willow: have anything you want.
anya: the sandwiches are meat.
buffy: i'm just not hungry.
willow: what about dawnie?
scene direction: willow comes to sit beside buffy
scene direction: xander looking around
xander: is she still in the bathroom?
scene direction: buffy frowning
buffy: i guess.
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: you guys wait here.
scene direction: buffy walks over to the hallway, looks at the door marked "women," then looks across to the door marked "authorized personnel only." she goes to the second door, opens it.
scene direction: buffy walks down the dark hallway, first slowly, then faster. distant sound of a scream.
scene direction: buffy comes to the second door, looks through the window and sees dawn struggling as the vampire is behind her and has her by the arms. dawn shrieks and struggles.
scene direction: buffy shoves the door but it is still locked. buffy throws herself against it and it bursts open.
scene direction: the vampire pulls dawn up against him and bends his head to bite. buffy runs up behind him and grabs him around the neck, grunting. dawn yelps and continues struggling.
scene direction: buffy pulls the vampire back and he loses his grip on dawn, who goes flying forward, crashing into the gurney. as she falls to the floor, she accidentally pulls the sheet so it falls down a bit, exposing joyce's head.
scene direction: buffy struggles with the vampire, he hits her in the stomach and she loses her grip, stumbling backward. he grabs her by the neck, growling. they struggle. buffy tries to reach his face but can't, so she knees him in the groin. he spins her around and slams her into a table covered with medical instruments, which crash to the floor. buffy and the vampire also fall to the floor.
scene direction: fight noises continue as the camera moves to dawn recovering, lying on the floor. she looks up at the gurney. shot of the corner of the gurney from dawn's pov; only the top of joyce's head is visible.
scene direction: buffy is on the floor with the vampire on top of her. she punches him in the face and they roll over so she's on top. as they struggle, she reaches out and grabs a medical instrument that looks like a short saw. she puts it against the vampire's throat as he grabs her face. his hand falls aside and buffy shoves the saw through his neck, cutting off his head. he explodes into dust and buffy falls aside, lying on her back, the saw clattering away.
scene direction: buffy lies there for a moment, staring at the ceiling with a small frown. then she rolls over.
buffy: dawn?
scene direction: buffy sits up halfway, stops when she sees dawn. the camera pulls back to find dawn still crouching, staring up at the gurney.
scene direction: slowly, dawn pulls herself up to a kneeling position so she can see joyce's face. joyce's eyes are still open. we stay on this shot with joyce in the foreground, dawn immediately behind her, and buffy in the background still sitting on the floor.
scene direction: dawn not taking her eyes off joyce
dawn: is she cold?
scene direction: buffy whispering
buffy: it's not her ... it's not her ... she's gone.
scene direction: dawn frowns slightly
dawn: where'd she go?
scene direction: dawn lifts her hand and reaches out, very slowly.
scene direction: close shot of joyce's head with dawn's hand moving slowly toward her cheek.
scene direction: the picture goes to black just before dawn's fingers touch the body.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producer: joss whedon 