scene direction: episode opens on a minion in glory's bathroom, gathering up bottles of cosmetics. he hurries into another room where we see other minions gathering up stuff and packing. murk walks among them.
murk: quickly, quickly! already we're behind schedule! someone's bound for a beheading.
scene direction: murk goes into a large walk-in closet where gronx is taking stuff from the shelves and putting it in boxes.
murk: let's make sure it's not me.
gronx: why do we remain when our moment of triumph lies so close at hand?
scene direction: murk quietly
murk: the glorious one, having acquired much in this world, doesn't exactly travel light.
scene direction: they peek around a corner and we see the main room of glory's apartment. glory stands on top of a stool wearing an ornate gown, with tailor minions at her feet working on the gown.
glory: hey! minions, i can hear you. god-like ears don't miss much, you know what i'm sayin'?
scene direction: glory glares at them
glory: come here.
scene direction: murk and gronx hurry out toward her.
gronx: 'twas he who blasphemed, your magnificence.
murk: spurred on by treacherous urging!
scene direction: murk gronx hits him
glory: guys! i'm not gonna kill you.
scene direction: glory frowns in puzzlement
glory: not in the mood. what do you think that's about?
gronx: in mercy does your power lie?
glory: no, brainless, in torture, death and chaos does my power lie.
scene direction: glory frowning
glory: so tell me, why am i not popping your head like a zit right now?
scene direction: the minions have no idea.
glory: maybe i'm just hungry.
murk: yes, we shall fetch a, a lovely- glory: no, i'm not hungry.
scene direction: she drops the robe to the floor, revealing a simple black dress underneath. she steps impatiently down from the stool. the tailors continue to work on the robe.
glory: uhh! just a little tight in the skin is all. i've been waiting an eternity - well, 25 human years - and it all comes down to tonight.
gronx: the portal shall open.
murk: and the great glorificus shall return.
glory: to the hell i came from. where i'm gonna rain down more super-sized portions of slaughter, mayhem and bloodshed than any of you scabs can even dream about.
scene direction: glory pacing, sits down on a sofa
glory: so how come i ain't happy?
scene direction: glory shot of the minions looking confused
glory: got everything i ever wanted ... still, something's off.
scene direction: she twirls her wrist a few times as if it's stiff.
glory: i don't know. what do you think?
scene direction: she looks off to her left. pan across to dawn sitting on another sofa, bound and gagged, whimpering with fear.
scene change: cut to the gas station. willow and xander stand staring at something. in the background tara is peeking out the boarded-up windows, and we see anya standing beside giles, who still lies on the counter but now appears to be conscious again. sound of the door opening. spike enters. his hands are still bandaged.
spike: better part of a century spent in delinquency just paid off.
scene direction: spike nods toward the door
spike: hotwired ben's auto. who's for gettin' the hell out of here?
xander: all in favor, let's do it.
scene direction: xander to giles
xander: you good to go?
giles: oh, don't worry about me. how's buffy?
xander: the same.
scene direction: xander turns back to staring where willow is staring
xander: still.
willow: it's been almost a half an hour.
scene direction: spike stares that way too
spike: the slayer's gonna be all right, won't she?
scene direction: beat.
xander: you should try it again, will.
willow: all right, but ... i'm not even sure she's, you know ... really in there.
xander: try.
scene direction: willow sighs, steps forward and kneels on the ground. focus on her face (buffy pov).
willow: can you hear me? buffy!
scene direction: we finally see what they're all looking at. buffy sits there with her hands folded in her lap. she stares straight ahead and doesn't seem to hear or see anything.
scene direction: back to focus on willow's face.
willow: buffy!
scene direction: zoom in on buffy's unresponsive face.
scene direction: willow os
willow: buffy?
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene direction: guest starring clare kramer, charlie weber, dean butler, lily knight, bob morrisey, amber benson as tara, special guest star joel grey, and kristine sutherland as joyce summers. written by douglas petrie, directed by david solomon.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on buffy still unresponsive, staring at nothing.
scene direction: spike os
spike: buffy!
scene direction: the gang continues staring at buffy.
spike: she can't just be brain-dead.
scene direction: spike paces around behind xander
spike: i mean ... she's still buffy,
scene direction: spike willow stands up
spike: somewhere in there, right?
xander: spike, come on, we're not gonna get dawn back by sittin' around here.
spike: you're not gonna get dawn back any way you slice it, harris, it's for buffy to decide.
xander: good, panic. that oughta help.
willow: we should move her. u-unless we shouldn't. should we?
anya: couldn't that make it worse? i think i read that somewhere.
xander: i am so large with not knowing.
giles: it's impossible to know for sure. losing dawn, after all that buffy's been through ... i think it's pushed her too far into some sort of catatonia.
spike: you don't need a diploma to see that.
scene direction: spike moves forward
spike: snap her out of it.
scene direction: spike grabs buffy by the shoulders and shakes her.
spike: buffy!
scene direction: close shot on spike's face (buffy pov).
spike: oi, rise and shine, love!
scene direction: the others look skeptical.
anya: spike...
spike: come on, people. girl's endowed with slayer strength. it's hardly the time to get dainty. buffy!
scene direction: spike shakes her harder
xander: we tried that!
scene direction: spike slaps buffy across the face, hard. no reaction.
spike: ow!
scene direction: spike grabs his head in pain
anya: we didn't try that.
scene direction: xander pulls spike away.
xander: are you insane? we could be dealing with neurological damage here. you want to kill her?
spike: we have to do something. i can't just sit here watching. you waste time with kid gloves. i'm willing to wager, when all is said and done, buffy likes it rough.
scene direction: xander punches spike in the face. they grapple.
scene direction: willow turns to them with a stern expression.
willow: separate.
scene direction: an unseen force pushes spike and xander apart.
scene direction: they both stare at willow in surprise. she gives them a determined glare.
scene direction: anya and giles stare too.
scene direction: willow glaring at them
willow: buffy's out. glory has dawn. sometime real soon, she's gonna use dawn to tear down the barrier between every dimension there is. so if you two wanna fight, do it after the world ends, okay?
scene direction: spike glares at xander. xander goes over to anya and giles, leans against the counter.
scene direction: willow very quietly and with authority
willow: all right. first we head back to sunnydale. xander'll take giles to a hospital. anya's looking after tara. and spike, you find glory. check her apartment, see if she's still there. try anything stupid, like payback, and i will get very cranky.
scene direction: willow looks around at them
willow: everyone clear?
scene direction: anya cautiously raises her hand.
willow: anya.
anya: um ... w-what will you do?
willow: i'll help buffy.
anya: okay then.
tara: the world is spinning.
scene direction: willow looks concerned, goes over to tara as xander and anya begin helping giles down.
tara: straight to a new day! big day. big, big day.
willow: shh, shh.
scene direction: willow tara whimpers
scene direction: spike moves forward.
spike: uh ... will?
scene direction: willow looks at him.
spike: now, uh, don't turn me into a horned toad for asking, but ... what if we come across ben?
scene direction: spike shot of the others listening
willow: i-i don't think a doctor's what buffy needs right now.
spike: well, yeah, especially not one who also happens to be glory.
scene direction: spike everyone looks confused
giles: what do you mean?
spike: you know. ben is glory.
scene direction: willow frowns
willow: you mean ... ben's with glory?
xander: "with" in what sense?
anya: they're working together?
spike: no. no. ben is glory. glory's ben. they're one and the same.
scene direction: beat. everyone looks completely confused (except tara who still looks blank).
anya: when did all this happen?
spike: not one hour ago! right here, before your very eyes! ben came, he turned into glory, snatched the kid, and pfft! vanished, remember?
scene direction: they continue to stare at him.
scene direction: spike uncertainly
spike: you do remember...?
scene direction: spike squints at them
spike: is everyone here very stoned?
scene direction: they continue to look confused.
scene direction: spike getting annoyed
spike: ben! glory! he's a doctor, she's the beast. two entirely separate entities sharing one body. like a bloody sitcom. surely you remember.
xander: so you're saying ... ben and glory...
anya: have a connection.
giles: yes, obviously, but what kind?
scene direction: spike laughs sarcastically
spike: oh, i get it. that's very crafty.
scene direction: spike nods
spike: glory's worked the kind of mojo where anyone who sees her little presto-change-o instantly forgets. and yours truly, being somewhat other than human ... stands immune.
scene direction: willow frowning
willow: so ... ben and glory ... are-are the same person?
scene direction: xander slowly, like a revelation
xander: glory can turn into ben, and ben turns back into glory.
anya: and anyone who sees it instantly forgets.
scene direction: spike sighs in relief
spike: kewpie doll for the lady.
scene direction: he puts one finger on his nose and points the other hand at anya.
giles: excellent.
scene direction: giles looks around at them
giles: now. do we suspect there may be some kind of connection between ben and glory?
scene direction: xander and anya look enquiringly at spike.
scene direction: spike sighs loudly.
scene change: cut to a man wielding a blowtorch, wearing a welding mask. he turns off the blowtorch and lifts the mask. it's the crazy guy who accosted dawn in "the real me." we hear rhythmic machinery noises. the guy looks around, then falls to his knees as glory enters, followed by dawn and some minions. glory is again wearing the robe and has dawn by the arm. we see that we're in some sort of warehouse.
crazy guy: the key. the key.
scene direction: as glory walks through the warehouse we see other crazy people doing various things with machinery. they all drop their tasks and kneel on the floor as glory and dawn go by. the machinery noises slow and then stop.
crazies: the key. the key. the key.
scene direction: glory, dawn, and the minions go to a door in the back.
scene change: cut to murk opening the door, peeking in, then nodding and gesturing behind him. he enters, followed by dawn and glory and two other minions. we're in what looks like a construction office. glory pushes dawn into a chair and turns away, putting a hand to her head. she sits on something as murk and gronx hover near her. the third minion stays near dawn. he's larger than the others and wears more ornate robes. the machinery noises resume.
glory: unbelievable how annoying those groupies can be.
murk: uh, they merely sense that tonight at last, the dimensional portal shall open.
scene direction: we see that the third minion is putting some kind of paste on dawn's forehead, while chanting in a foreign language. dawn looks very scared.
scene direction: gronx os
gronx: ushering in the long and bloody reign of the great...
scene direction: glory looks over, sees the priest minion chanting over dawn.
glory: what's he doing?
priest: i must anoint the key.
glory: really don't. go.
priest: but- glory: out! get out, get out!
scene direction: murk hurries forward and ushers the priest out. dawn continues to look frightened. in the background we can see a window through which the crazy people are visible, going back and forth as they do whatever they're doing with the machinery.
glory: you know ... you recapture your godhood and unleash armageddon...
scene direction: glory picks up a rag from a table, uses it to rub the stuff off dawn's forehead
glory: all of a sudden everybody wants to be a part of the inner circle.
scene direction: glory wets the cloth with her tongue and rubs at dawn's forehead some more. dawn scrunches up her face in disgust. glory straightens up, tosses the cloth aside, sighs.
glory: you okay?
scene direction: dawn weakly
dawn: i wanna go home.
glory: sweetie ... ohh...
scene direction: glory takes another chair, pulls it over in front of dawn, and sits on the back of the chair with her feet on the chair's seat.
glory: you're about to.
scene direction: dawn looks up hopefully.
glory: not that fake suburban nightmare the monks cooked up for you. i mean your real home.
scene direction: glory dawn begins to cry
glory: as the key! you fit the lock. well, it's like a lock. hey!
scene direction: glory pats dawn's knee
glory: you want a pizza?
scene direction: dawn softly
dawn: no.
glory: pillow?
scene direction: glory looks around
glory: i don't know if this thing gets cable. doubtful.
scene direction: dawn crying
dawn: please. stop.
glory: you nervous?
scene direction: dawn crying
dawn: yes.
scene direction: glory smiles, gets down to sit on the chair seat
glory: i know how you feel. it is your last night.
scene direction: dawn's eyes widen in horror.
glory: as, you know ... a human.
scene direction: glory picks up dawn's hand by the wrist and shakes it around
glory: this body ... it's just a rental, dawnie. being human? it's like a costume for girls like you and me. being something else, *that's* what we are.
scene direction: dawn firmly
dawn: don't.
scene direction: glory smiling
glory: what?
dawn: don't call me dawnie.
scene direction: glory gives a surprised laugh, lets go of dawn's hands and sits back.
glory: huh. wow. you know, that actually hurt my feelings.
scene direction: dawn whispers
dawn: i'm sorry.
scene direction: glory lifts a hand
glory: not the point.
scene direction: glory gets up and walks past dawn, who continues to look very scared.
glory: i'm just thinking, here i am trying to make you feel better, when comforting others ... not part of my life.
scene direction: glory frowns
glory: and i'm doing it, so i can stop ... feeling so ...
scene direction: glory pats her chest
glory: um ...
scene direction: angle on dawn in the foreground with glory in the background, her back turned. glory snaps her fingers at dawn.
glory: help me out.
scene direction: dawn nervous
dawn: guilty?
glory: guilty.
scene direction: glory laughs
glory: that's it!
scene direction: glory laughs some more, then stops
glory: but i'm not supposed to feel guilty. i'm not supposed to feel anything. i'm, i'm ... i'm a god. i'm above it. i'm ...
scene direction: glory looks over at dawn
glory: you.
scene direction: dawn looks frightened. glory strides back over to her.
glory: you did this to me, didn't you? some sort of spell, you've been hanging with the wicca, you could've-
scene direction: glory pauses
glory: but no. it's not magic. it's something else.
scene direction: glory puts her hand to her head, then looks angrily at dawn
glory: still, it is you doing this.
scene direction: dawn shakes her head
dawn: i ... i'm not doing anything. i swear.
glory: we'll see.
scene direction: glory opens the door to reveal the minions waiting outside.
scene direction: glory glaring at dawn
glory: anoint this thing now!
scene direction: the priest minion comes in, followed by murk and gronk. dawn still looks scared.
glory: know what they're all chanting for out there, dawnie? blood. 'cause we found out your blood is the key to the key!
scene direction: glory the priest begins marking dawn's forehead again
glory: all i gotta do is bleed you dry, the portal opens up, and i can go home!
scene direction: glory priest continues chanting and marking dawn's forehead
glory: so knock yourself out, girlfriend. make me feel bad as you can.
scene direction: glory moves forward and gets in dawn's face.
scene direction: glory softly
glory: 'cause tomorrow ... you bleed, little girl.
scene change: cut to exterior of xander's apartment building, night.
anya voiceover: you sure you know what you're doing?
scene change: cut to inside. willow is taking candles out of a small leather bag and putting them on the table.
willow: i think so.
scene direction: willow pause
willow: i don't know. it's ... not exactly well-explored territory, but ... i gotta try.
anya: a spell like this could be really dangerous for buffy. and you.
tara: time ... oh, time is coming.
scene direction: willow goes over to tara, who is sitting cross-legged on a chair beside another table.
willow: shh. it's okay. i'm here.
scene direction: tara whimpers softly. anya comes over.
willow: you'll look after her while i'm...
anya: sure. what do i do?
willow: mostly ... just ... be here for her.
scene direction: willow anya nods
willow: and, and there's some pills in my knapsack. half of one every two hours keeps her ... pretty mellow.
anya: y-you think you'll be gone more than two hours?
scene direction: willow shrugs
willow: wish me luck.
anya: okay.
scene direction: anya reaches over to give willow a punch on the arm.
scene direction: anya with forced enthusiasm
anya: good luck!
willow: thanks.
scene direction: willow turns to tara, turns tara's face to look at her
willow: okay. be good now, sweetie. i-i'll be back as soon as i can, okay? we're good?
scene direction: tara stares at willow while she talks, but doesn't reply. willow kisses her on the forehead, smiles at her, then turns away. tara whines softly and holds out her hand toward willow.
scene direction: willow gathers up the stuff from the table and walks toward a closed door.
scene direction: anya softly
anya: good luck.
scene direction: willow opens the door, goes through it, closes it.
scene change: cut to the bedroom. it's dark. willow closes the door behind her, puts a candle on the small table beside the bed, and lights the candle. she goes around the bed to the other side. we can see a poster on the world that says, "there's money in arc welding!" with a picture of a person arc-welding. willow puts two more candles on another small table and lights them. as she turns away, we see buffy sitting in a chair against the wall, still catatonic.
scene direction: willow sits on the corner of the bed, facing buffy.
scene direction: shot of buffy's unseeing face.
scene direction: shot of willow looking at buffy.
scene direction: flash to willow in a clean, brightly-lit room. she blinks in confusion, looks around.
scene direction: pan across a couple of rooms full of flowers, knick-knacks, furniture, etc. it's all done in bright cheerful colors and very tasteful.
scene direction: willow walks slowly forward, looking around. she comes into another room with a fireplace. on the wall we see a picture of a woman with a baby. on a side table are more pictures, and a statue of a man, woman, and child. willow turns away.
scene direction: pan across shelves with more sculptures, records, etc. behind willow we can see a sofa. then a voice comes from behind her.
voice: hi, willow.
scene direction: willow turns to reveal a little girl, about six years old, with blonde hair in two pigtails. she is holding a doll and sitting at a child-sized round table with some toys on it.
scene direction: willow smiles.
willow: hello, buffy.
scene direction: close shot of young buffy gazing at willow.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on a shot of a door. a foot appears and kicks the door open.
scene direction: cut out to reveal spike in the doorway. it's the entrance to glory's apartment. spike turns on the light and looks around. the apartment appears empty.
scene direction: spike walks in slowly, putting a cigarette in his mouth, lighting it, looking around. his hands are no longer bandaged. on the floor remains a circle of twigs and symbols from gronx and murk's rune-casting. spike continues walking around, pauses, looking off to the left.
scene direction: spike walks toward an arched doorway underneath the stairs. he goes slowly through it, finds a door, opens it cautiously.
scene direction: he walks slowly through the door, reaches up to turn on the light which is just a bare bulb hanging from the ceiling. underneath the bulb we can see a small sink.
scene direction: we see a small, dark room with just a bed (unmade) and a small table that holds a lamp and some books. pan across to some blue clothing hanging against the wall. zoom in on ben's hospital id tag (with photo) attached to one blue shirt.
scene direction: spike stares at the room with a small frown.
young buffy voiceover: what are you doing here?
scene change: cut to young buffy looking up at willow.
willow: actually, i'm, uh...
scene direction: shot of willow and buffy sitting in xander's dark bedroom.
willow: ...looking for you.
scene direction: cut back to young buffy.
young buffy: do you like dolls?
scene direction: young buffy stroking her doll's hair
willow: buffy ... what are you doing here?
young buffy: i like it here.
willow: but ...
scene direction: willow kneels by her
willow: you know we need you. you have to come out.
young buffy: why?
willow: to be with your friends.
young buffy: it's a big day for me.
scene direction: she looks over at the door. sound of the front door opening.
scene direction: woman os
woman: hello!
scene direction: young buffy big smile
young buffy: mommy, daddy!
scene direction: young buffy gets up and runs toward the door, handing her doll to willow. willow stands up to watch.
young buffy: you're back! you're back!
scene direction: we see joyce and buffy's father (hank) entering. joyce carries a bundled-up baby.
joyce: hello, buffy.
scene direction: hank leans over with hands on his knees
hank: how's my girl?
scene direction: young buffy smiles at him.
joyce: are you ready to meet your new baby sister?
scene direction: shot of willow watching.
scene direction: young buffy looks upset, frowns, backs away and folds her arms across her chest.
hank: oh, come on now, buffy. she's nothing to be afraid of.
young buffy: who's afraid?
joyce: don't you want to be the big sister?
young buffy: no, i want to be the baby.
hank: buffy.
young buffy: you're gonna pay more attention to her and forget all about me!
joyce: ohh...
scene direction: joyce kneels down beside young buffy. shot of the baby in her arms. the baby makes baby noises.
scene direction: young buffy turns to address willow.
young buffy: doesn't she look funny? like a wrinkly old grandpa.
scene direction: young buffy turns back to joyce. joyce gently puts the baby in young buffy's arms.
joyce: like this ... okay, support the head ... there you go! we're calling her dawn.
scene direction: willow softly
willow: dawn.
scene direction: young buffy smiling
young buffy: i ... i could be the one to look after her sometimes ... if you need a helper.
scene direction: young buffy joyce smiling at the baby
young buffy: mom? can i take care of her?
scene direction: joyce smiling, stroking young buffy's hair
joyce: yes, buffy, you can take care of her.
scene direction: as willow watches this scene, she hears something and turns to look.
scene direction: we see (adult) buffy #1 wearing a sleeveless blouse and pale skirt, with her hair loose, carrying a book. she walks over to a bookshelf, puts the book on it with other books, pauses for a moment, turns and walks away.
scene direction: willow watches in some confusion as buffy #1 walks past her. willow glances over toward where young buffy was.
scene change: cut to willow standing by an open fire, night. she looks around in confusion.
willow: ohh...kay.
scene change: cut to giles sitting on a hospital bed, putting on his jacket. his left arm is stiff by his side and he can only get his jacket onto the right arm. he gets up, putting his right hand to the place on his stomach where he was speared, and walks forward.
giles: uh, can you, uh...
scene direction: xander appears and helps giles put the jacket on as they walk out into the hallway.
xander: there. how you doing?
giles: it only hurts while i answer pointless questions. where's buffy?
xander: willow's on it. or ... in it. she's workin' some spell, trying to reach buffy psychically.
giles: uh, she's gone into buffy's mind?
scene direction: xander nods
xander: pretty tricky stuff.
giles: it's extraordinarily advanced. um, i was thinking we should check on glory's victims while ... we're here.
scene direction: as they continue to walk, we see the view in front of them. around a corner we can see spike looking at a medical cart. he takes a bag of blood from the cart and puts it in his pocket as he approaches xander and giles.
xander: oh, the mental ward? i already been. the vegetable section's closed. nobody there. it's like they all just got up and walked away.
scene direction: xander and giles reach spike and they all stop walking. xander looks pointedly at spike's purloined bloodbag but says nothing.
spike: checked out glory's flat. looks like the great one has scampered.
giles: gone to, uh, perform her ritual with dawn and leaving us entirely clueless.
spike: not entirely.
scene direction: spike they look at him
spike: i know this bloke. well, not so much a bloke so much as a demon. but still, bookish. all tuned in to the nastier corners of this our magic world.
scene direction: spike looks around, takes out a cigarette
spike: it's a bit of a last resort really, but still, we might persuade him to suss out glory's game plan.
scene direction: spike lights his cigarette as we see a "no smoking" sign prominently displayed on the wall right behind him.
spike: sound worthy?
scene direction: giles sighs and shrugs.
scene direction: spike nods
spike: off we go then. meet back at the shop.
scene direction: spike turns to go. xander pats giles on the arm and then falls into step with spike.
spike: found ben's room at glory's. didn't learn much.
xander: wait, wait, wait. ben? at glory's?
scene direction: xander spike rolls his eyes
xander: you're saying all this time he's been subletting from her?
spike: this ... is gonna be worth it.
scene direction: spike bitch-slaps xander upside the head.
scene direction: shot of the two of them from the rear as they both grab their heads in pain.
spike and xander: ow!
scene change: cut to the front again. they both stumble, use each other to regain their balance, and continue walking.
spike: last time. from the top.
scene direction: they walk off together.
scene change: cut to glory leaning her arm against the wall of the warehouse, pinching her nose with her fingers. she sighs.
glory: i'm hating this, murk.
gronx: and this would be what exactly, your holiness?
glory: memories. i'm starting to remember the things ben did. people he spoke with, stuff he wore...
scene direction: glory the minions look alarmed
glory: hmm!
scene direction: glory calling to dawn
glory: kid!
scene direction: the minions part to reveal dawn still sitting in the chair with the priest minion next to her. glory walks toward her.
glory: i came ... he came to see you, didn't he?
dawn: ben?
glory: yeah, ben. you called him to the desert when you were hiding from me. and he came. and then he was me, you remember?
scene direction: dawn nervously
dawn: yes.
scene direction: glory whirls to face the minions
glory: see? she's not supposed to remember that! nobody should!
scene direction: glory rubs her chest anxiously
glory: the cloak between ben and me is fading! i almost helped her! he ...
scene direction: glory turns back toward dawn
glory: i wanted to.
scene direction: glory groans
glory: i can't do this!
scene direction: she walks past dawn and grabs the priest minion by the front of his robe.
glory: get him out of me.
priest: what?
scene direction: glory crying
glory: ben! the human meat-sack who's infecting me.
scene direction: glory turns to lean against the wall
glory: do your mojo, make an incision, or removal, or whatever you've gotta do.
scene direction: glory sniffles
glory: help me!
scene direction: glory pacing
glory: i'm ... i'm thinking ben's thoughts, and ... and i'm feeling his feelings! and ... uh! i...
scene direction: she morphs into ben.
ben: ...can't kill the girl.
scene direction: morphs back into glory.
glory: damn it.
scene direction: she collapses to the floor. supporting herself on her arms, she looks up at the priest.
glory: help me!
priest: th-this i cannot do. you risk terrible magicks in opening the portal. nothing comes without a price. this ... is yours.
scene direction: glory gets up with a scowl
glory: gods don't pay.
scene direction: she goes to dawn, grabs dawn by the throat and pulls her to her feet. dawn gasps.
glory: we do this *now*!
scene change: cut to willow still standing by the fireside. she looks to her right. shot of buffy sitting on a rock (from episode "intervention"). willow looks to her left. shot of the first slayer on the other side of the fire opposite buffy.
willow: hey ... i know you. you're, you're the first original slayer who tried killing us all in our dreams.
scene direction: the first slayer gazes at buffy.
scene direction: willow shrugs
willow: how've you been?
first slayer: death is your gift.
scene direction: willow looks over at buffy.
buffy: death is my gift?
willow: wait, death is her what?
first slayer: death is your gift.
scene direction: willow turns her head to look at buffy again. as she does so, flash-cut back to the previous scene.
scene direction: buffy #1 again walks past willow, over to the bookcase, puts the book on the bookcase, pauses.
scene direction: willow watches in confusion.
scene direction: closer shot of buffy #1 standing by the bookcase, staring at it but not really seeing it, lost in thought.
scene direction: willow watches this with a small frown. then she turns to her right and we see the back of (adult) buffy #2. this buffy wears jeans and a black tank top, has her hair pulled back into a ponytail, and is walking away from willow down a hallway. at the end of the hall we see a door that is slightly ajar with sunlight coming from behind it.
scene direction: willow begins to follow buffy #2.
willow: where are you going?
scene change: cut to the warehouse. dawn is still gasping and choking as glory holds her by the throat. the three minions gather around.
murk: glorificus, wait! kill the key now and all will be lost!
gronx: we'll be stuck on this mortal plane forever!
glory: all right, you're right.
scene direction: glory releases dawn
glory: it's cool.
scene direction: glory dawn staggers back, clutching her throat
glory: i'm just a little emotional right now...
scene direction: glory small laugh
glory: which, if you're into irony, funny.
scene direction: shot of dawn grabbing a pillar for support, gasping.
scene direction: glory os
glory: leave. we need a little girl time.
scene direction: the minions begin bowing and glory makes an impatient gesture.
glory: goodbye!
scene direction: they hurry out. dawn glares angrily at glory. glory puts her hands to her face, then rubs the sides of her neck.
glory: how do they do it?
scene direction: dawn hoarsely
dawn: do what?
glory: people!
scene direction: glory walking toward dawn
glory: how do they function here like this in the world with all this bile running through them? every day it's whoo-oo
scene direction: glory wiggles her hand at dawn
glory: you have no control. they're not even animals, they're just these meatbaggy slaves to, to hormones and pheromones and their, and their feelings. hate 'em!
scene direction: dawn stops rubbing her neck, stares at glory. glory goes behind a drafting table and leans her arms against it.
glory: i mean really. is this what the poets go on about, this?
scene direction: glory thumps her chest, shakes her head, sighs
glory: call me crazy, but as hard-core drugs go, human emotion is just useless! people are puppets! everyone getting jerked around by what they're feelin'. am i wrong?
scene direction: glory looks at dawn
glory: really, i want to know.
scene direction: shot of dawn leaning against the pillar, looking at the floor.
glory: gonna bleed you either way.
scene direction: dawn opens her eyes, looks at glory
dawn: depends on the person.
glory: so you're saying some people like this.
scene direction: dawn defensively
dawn: some.
glory: funny. 'cause i look around at this world you're so eager to be a part of ... and all i see is six billion lunatics looking for the fastest ride out.
scene direction: glory smiles
glory: who's not crazy? look around. everyone's drinking, smoking, shooting up ... shooting each other, or just plain screwing their brains out 'cause they don't want 'em anymore.
scene direction: glory looks at dawn
glory: *i'm* crazy? honey, i'm the original one-eyed chicklet in the kingdom of the blind.
scene direction: glory sighs
glory: 'cause at least i admit the world makes me nuts.
scene direction: glory comes out from behind the drafter's table, walks toward dawn.
glory: name one person who can take it here. that's all i'm asking.
scene direction: glory in dawn's face
glory: name one.
scene direction: dawn firmly
dawn: buffy.
scene change: cut to buffy sitting unresponsive in the chair in xander's bedroom.
scene change: cut to willow sitting on xander's bed staring at buffy.
willow voiceover: i can't keep following you around like this, buffy. we have to go.
scene change: cut to the dream-hallway. willow is still following buffy #2 down the hallway. adult buffy pushes through the door and continues walking.
willow: you have to talk to...
scene direction: willow enters the room, sees something on the floor.
willow: ...me.
scene direction: willow walks slowly into the room as we see what she's looking at. it is joyce's graveyard plot complete with a mound of fresh dirt, sprinkled with fallen leaves, and a fringe of grass. the headstone reads "joyce summers 1958-2001." buffy #2 stands staring at the grave with her arms folded. willow walks up next to her, also looking at the grave.
scene direction: overhead shot of the two of them and the grave. the room appears to be joyce's bedroom; the grave is where the bed should be, and the entire room is carpeted in grass. the other furniture (bedside table, chair, etc.) is as it should be.
willow: i'm sorry.
scene direction: buffy #2 shakes her head, doesn't look at willow
buffy #2: don't be. death is my gift.
willow: yeah, i keep hearing that, but...
scene direction: willow buffy #2 begins to walk off; willow follows
willow: i'm not exactly sure what it means.
scene direction: buffy #2 over her shoulder
buffy #2: it's really not that complicated.
scene direction: they go through a door into dawn's bedroom. dawn is lying on the bed.
willow: not for you maybe.
scene direction: buffy sits on the bed beside dawn, looks at her, then up at willow.
buffy #2: it's what i do.
scene direction: shot of dawn lying on the bed. she breathes slowly and seems to be crying.
buffy #2: i mean, come on, you've known me ... for how long? it's what i'm here for. it's all i am.
scene direction: buffy turns to look at dawn again. then she picks up a pillow from beside dawn and puts it over dawn's face. dawn begins to struggle, with muffled noises of protest.
willow: buffy, stop! no!
scene direction: buffy looks very calm as she holds the pillow in place. dawn's arms and legs wave in the air ineffectively.
willow: god, no!
scene direction: buffy #2 turns to willow, still holding the pillow down
buffy #2: what?
scene direction: buffy #2 dawn's struggling slows
buffy #2: i keep telling you, will. i-i figured it out. death is my gift.
scene direction: dawn stops struggling. her arms and legs fall limply onto the bed.
scene direction: willow stares in horror.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the warehouse. glory (still wearing the black dress and ceremonial gown) walks forward shaking her head.
glory: oh, ben. this is really not a good time.
scene direction: she morphs into ben, who continues walking forward.
ben: dawn. has glory hurt you?
dawn: uh ... no. not yet.
scene direction: ben turns away, looking shaky. he sits carefully on the chair.
dawn: but i have to get out of here.
scene direction: dawn nervously
dawn: ben? you okay?
scene direction: she walks toward him. ben is staring at his hands, which are trembling. in the background we can still see the occasional person walking by outside.
ben: where is it?
dawn: w-where's what?
scene direction: ben staring at his hands
ben: all the blood. i can feel it ... still warm and ... wet. glory. oh, god.
scene direction: ben dawn looks anxious
ben: she slaughtered hundreds of men. but i can feel them ... breaking.
dawn: ben, something is happening to both you and glory.
ben: i'm remembering her, aren't i? the things she's done ... things she's going to do.
dawn: i know. she told me. i think ... whatever the magic is that keeps you guys apart, it's starting to break down.
scene direction: dawn he continues looking upset
dawn: ben, glory could come back any minute.
scene direction: ben not seeming to hear her
ben: how could she do this?
dawn: i don't know. but we have to get out of her and, and find buffy- ben: no!
scene direction: dawn turns to her
dawn: i mean, i have a job. i have a life! and glory? she never once thinks about me in all this!
scene direction: dawn stares at him. sound of a knock on the door. they both look anxiously at it.
dawn: help me.
ben: how?
dawn: i- priest:
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: highness!
scene direction: ben gets up.
dawn: please.
scene direction: priest os
priest: is everything all right?
scene direction: ben strides over to the door, opens it.
priest: you're not- ben grabs the priest and pulls him inside, head-butts him. the priest staggers back against the wall and falls down. ben punches him and he falls unconscious.
scene direction: ben to dawn
ben: i'll take you as far as i can, ditch you before she comes back.
scene direction: he and dawn run out the door.
willow voiceover: okay ... now this is weird.
scene direction: cut back to the old summers home. willow stands looking down at young buffy, who is again sitting at her table holding her doll.
young buffy: hi, willow. what are you doing here?
willow: actually, i'm, uh ... looking for you. here. again.
scene direction: young buffy strokes her doll's hair
young buffy: do you like dolls?
willow: no ...
scene direction: willow kneels
willow: and i think we already deja'd this vu.
scene direction: young buffy giggles
young buffy: you talk funny.
willow: yes ... as you'll tell me again when we're older and in chem class.
scene direction: willow frowns
willow: buffy ... what are we doing here?
young buffy: don't you like it here?
willow: we don't have time.
scene direction: sound of the door opening. young buffy smiles, gets up, gives her doll to willow.
young buffy: mommy, daddy!
scene direction: hank os
hank: we're home!
scene direction: willow stands to watch.
scene direction: young buffy os
young buffy: you're back, you're back!
scene direction: joyce and hank enter with baby dawn again.
scene direction: joyce smiling
joyce: hi, buffy.
scene direction: shot of willow watching.
scene change: cut to joyce kneeling while young buffy holds the baby.
joyce: we're calling her dawn.
scene direction: willow turns her head and again sees adult buffy #1 putting the book on the bookshelf.
scene direction: shot of willow still holding young buffy's doll. sound of the baby making baby noises. willow turns back toward the front door.
scene direction: angle on young buffy holding the baby, with joyce kneeling and hank standing with his hands on his knees.
young buffy: i could be the one to look after her sometimes.
scene direction: willow watches with a small smile.
scene change: cut to a fire burning in a fireplace. pan across a desk covered with books, papers, and an old manual typewriter. doc (see episode "forever") sits at the desk holding a mug, flipping pages of a book. sound of knocking on the door. he doesn't get up.
doc: it's always open!
scene direction: the door opens, spike and xander enter.
scene direction: doc os
doc: what can i do for you boys? want some cocoa?
scene direction: they walk over to him. he continues looking at the book.
spike: no. we need information. we need- xander:
scene direction: spike suddenly
spike: ben's glory!
scene direction: doc looks up
doc: who's what?
scene direction: spike surprised
spike: look at this. special ed remembers.
xander: yeah. i do. ben's glory and glory's ben. it's like this...
scene direction: xander gestures around his head
xander: fog's lifting.
scene direction: spike nodding
spike: wonderful. but not why we're here.
scene direction: spike turns back to doc
spike: hell-god type.
scene direction: spike doc returns to his book
spike: name of glory- xander: a.k.a. ben.
spike: -has gone missing. she's brewing up some major-league bad, and she's nicked the slayer's kid sister in the bargain.
scene direction: doc looking at him, nodding
doc: hmm. that girl you brought here. sweet little thing. how'd things work out with her mom? changed her mind, didn't she?
spike: yeah. you got any idea where glory would take her?
scene direction: doc closes his book, thoughtfully
doc: glory ... glory. oh!
scene direction: doc gets up, carrying the book
doc: you don't mean glorificus.
scene direction: doc walks closer to them
doc: gosh. what do you wanna get mixed up with her for? that's a sure way to get yourselves killed. i hear she's awfully unpleasant.
scene direction: doc turns away, goes toward a side table
doc: when it comes to hellgods, my best advice ... is get out of the way ... and stay there.
scene direction: doc puts the book down
spike: love to. can't.
doc: well, uh, other than that ...
scene direction: doc turns to a chest of drawers, closes a drawer
doc: i'd like to help ... but i-i'm a small-town guy.
scene direction: shot of xander listening.
doc: this glorificus, if it is her ... whoo, she's big city.
spike: she's got dawn.
doc: right.
scene direction: doc thinks
doc: well, i may know a fella ... you know, who knows a fella in...
scene direction: doc thinks
doc: in china. he might- spike: how the hell are we supposed to get to china? teleport?
doc: i guess.
scene direction: shot of spike looking suspicious. he looks downward.
scene direction: close angle on doc from about mid-chest to mid-thigh. his hands are clasped in front of him. behind him on the table we see something that looks like a wooden box.
doc: you know, if you're in that much of a hurry.
scene change: cut to doc's face.
doc: wish you luck.
spike: you're lying.
scene direction: xander looks at spike in surprise. doc removes his glasses.
spike: and what's more ... i believe you're standing right in front of the very thing we need.
scene direction: another shot of the box half-hidden behind doc's body.
scene direction: doc smiles and suddenly leaps to his left. suddenly he's behind spike, who turns in surprise as doc grabs a sword that's leaning against the wall. he puts the sword tip to spike's throat.
scene direction: doc whispers
doc: idiot.
scene direction: doc lunges forward but spike smacks the sword blade aside and falls to the floor, knocking over a pile of books onto himself.
scene direction: doc opens his mouth and a super-long tongue comes out, smacks xander in the chest and slams him back against a wall, then retreats.
scene direction: the tongue coils back into doc's mouth.
scene direction: xander falls to the floor with a grunt.
scene direction: doc walks over to where spike is lying on the floor stunned.
doc: you think only underworld bottom-feeders worship the beast?
scene direction: doc kicks spike in the face, then turns, grabs the box off the table and throws it into the fire. he turns away from the fireplace, walks back toward spike.
doc: her day is coming, boys!
scene direction: doc grabs spike by the front of his shirt
doc: and when she returns, then you're gonna see something.
scene direction: xander jumps up and knees doc in the chest, knocking him away from spike. xander falls on top of doc. as they grapple, spike hurries over to the fire and pulls the box out.
spike: ow!
scene direction: xander and doc continue grappling. xander reaches out and grabs the sword, gets up on his knees and plunges the sword downward. blue blood spurts up at him.
scene direction: shot of spike kneeling by the fireplace, panting and looking over at xander.
scene direction: xander gets up, wipes blue blood from his face, looks at spike.
scene direction: spike gets up holding the box in both arms, walks over to xander. the box is smoking slightly but appears undamaged.
xander: what do we got?
scene direction: spike looking down at doc
spike: something worth dying for.
scene direction: xander opens the door and they leave. pan over to doc lying there with the sword sticking out of his chest, blue blood staining his shirt.
scene direction: suddenly doc's eyes pop open.
scene change: cut to buffy and willow facing each other in the dark bedroom.
willow voiceover: buffy, will you just stop a second and listen to me?
scene change: cut to the dream-hallway. buffy #2 is walking down the hallway with willow following.
willow: buffy!
scene direction: willow hurries around in front of buffy, stops her with a hand on her arm.
willow: you have to stop doing this.
buffy #2: doing what?
willow: killing dawn.
buffy #2: why?
willow: because this never happened. you never killed your sister.
buffy #2: will, i did this.
willow: in your imagination! none of this is real! y-you're stuck in some kind of loop!
buffy #2: i don't know what you're talking about. 'scuse me.
scene direction: she resumes walking. willow follows.
willow: buffy, why are you doing this?
scene direction: buffy pushes through the door.
scene change: cut to dawn and ben walking down the main street of sunnydale. ben still wears the ceremonial robe and has dawn by the wrist. dawn looks nervously over her shoulder.
dawn: i think they see us.
ben: just stay close to me. don't look back.
scene direction: suddenly he pushes dawn into an alley. they press up against a brick wall.
ben: shh! stay very still.
scene direction: ben goes to peer around the corner. when he turns back, dawn hits him over the head with a large pile of chain. he goes down. dawn drops the chain next to him.
dawn: i'm sorry.
scene direction: dawn steps over him and starts off.
scene direction: glory os
glory: sorry?!
scene direction: dawn looks horrified, turns back.
scene direction: glory stands up holding the chain.
glory: that actually hurt, you prepubescent puke.
scene direction: dawn looks very scared.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the alley.
glory: okay, first thought, just totally spontaneous, unfiltered, off the top of my head ... ow!
scene direction: she shakes the chain in dawn's face, then tosses it aside.
glory: you hit ben in his soft human head, and i remember the pain.
scene direction: glory pins one of dawn's arms behind her and forces her farther into the alley. dawn grunts in pain. glory lets go.
glory: you probably think i won't waste any precious blood of yours till tonight. you're right. but i know a thousand ways to hurt you that won't spill a drop.
scene direction: glory shoves dawn in the chest. dawn stumbles backward with a yelp. she backs up toward some stairs leading up to a door. dawn ends up sitting on a stair clutching the metal hand-rail. glory advances on her.
glory: you know all those pesky feelings ben's been having like guilt, empathy? i'm gonna take 'em and mash 'em back down where they belong, okay? now ...
scene direction: glory strokes the side of dawn's face
glory: let's have big-girl fun.
scene direction: glory grabs dawn's chin
glory: just you and...
scene direction: suddenly glory lets go of dawn and speaks in a different tone.
glory: leave her alone.
scene direction: she rolls her eyes and turns away, morphs into ben.
ben: i said, leave her alone.
scene direction: morph.
scene direction: from this point on the morphing happens so fast i won't note it each time. just assume that they change each time there's a change in speaker.
glory: no, no. little late in the game to start growing a backbone, benjamin.
scene direction: glory dawn watches fearfully
glory: now be good and stay quiet. no you don't! get over yourself, ben! this is the way things are! i'm strong, you're weak.
scene direction: glory laughs
glory: this is reality. stop trying to infect me with your...
scene direction: glory whirls around
ben: do you ever stop talking? i don't know which is worse, waking up in a dress not knowing where i've been, or having to hear all your self-involved ranting!
glory: animal.
ben: wrong, glory. i'm no animal. this is humanity you're feeling. welcome to the world.
scene direction: in the background, dawn slowly gets up and starts edging away. ben turns to her.
glory: no, no, no!
scene direction: glory grabs dawn and throws her across the alley. dawn slams into a dumpster and falls to the ground.
glory: stick around, chica.
ben: i won't let you hurt her, glory.
glory: ooh, shut your hole, you sanctimonious little meatworm.
scene direction: glory advances on the frightened dawn
glory: i'm going home no matter what you do.
scene direction: glory looks to the side, reaches down to grab something, morphs into ben as she picks it up. it's an empty beer bottle. ben slams it against the side of the dumpster, breaking it. he holds the broken edge up to dawn's face. dawn cringes away in terror.
ben: you really think i'll just let that happen?
glory: benjamin, what are you doing?
ben: you need her blood? when i'm through there won't be enough left to fill a bottle cap. then you, hellbitch, have nowhere left- glory: -to go. huh!
scene direction: glory pulls dawn away from the dumpster, throws her across the alley, then throws the bottle against the wall. we hear it shatter. dawn crouches on the ground staring at glory in fear.
glory: you can't hurt her and you know it, ben.
scene direction: glory sits down on a pile of bricks
glory: i know it 'cause i feel what you're feeling. scared. shh! shh! it's okay! you don't wanna die. who would? i don't.
ben: you can't, you're immortal.
glory: nobody has to die here, ben. just let me bleed the girl and go home. everything will work out fine.
ben: do you really believe with all i know that you can trick me?
glory: stop ... and think, baby. we bleed the kid, return me to my seat of power, i become a god again...
ben: and i disappear.
glory: ooh, unless somebody up there likes you. give up the girl ... i could like you a lot.
scene direction: dawn watches this wide-eyed.
ben: i won't make a deal with you, glory.
scene direction: glory angry
glory: when exactly did you get stupid? i'm offering immortality here.
ben: i believe you. that's not the problem. you make me immortal, then what?
scene direction: ben walks over to dawn, grabs her arm and pulls her to her feet
ben: i'd have to kill her to do it and i won't be able to live with that, not even for a day, forget about eternity!
scene direction: he whirls dawn around in a circle and morphs in mid-whirl.
glory: baby, baby, baby ben.
scene direction: glory lets go of dawn who falls to the ground again
glory: why do you worry so much? when you're immortal, all this crap you've been carrying around inside ...
scene direction: glory leans against the wall
glory: the guilt, the anger, the crazy-making pain ...
scene direction: glory smiles
glory: ooh, it all just melts away like ice cream. trust me. when all this is over i can set you up real nice. i'm making it easy. it's you ... or the girl.
scene direction: she slides down the wall and morphs halfway down.
scene direction: ben panting
ben: i can't accept that.
glory: accept it.
scene direction: glory chuckles
glory: i'm a god, stupid.
scene direction: she morphs into ben again. he stares at dawn, who stares back fearfully.
scene direction: ben gets up, goes over to dawn, holds out his hand.
ben: i'm sorry.
scene direction: dawn sighs in relief, lifts her hand to take his. ben grabs her wrist instead.
dawn: no!
scene direction: ben pulls her to her feet and leads her out of the alley.
ben: don't make this harder than it already is.
scene direction: overhead shot of them from the back. they come out onto the street.
ben: i'm sorry, i got no choice. it's you or me.
scene direction: three minions appear and walk up to them.
scene change: cut to joyce's bedroom/grave. lingering shot of the headstone.
scene change: cut to willow and buffy #2 staring at it. buffy turns to go.
willow: no. buffy! leave dawn alone, what is this?
scene direction: buffy #2 opening the door
buffy #2: my gift. this is what i do.
willow: i'm not talking about this, i'm talking about...
scene direction: willow follows buffy through the door, but instead of dawn's bedroom, they come out into the magic shop. buffy #1 walks over to the bookshelves again. in the foreground we can see the back of buffy #2's head. buffy #1 puts the book on the shelf.
willow: ...this.
scene direction: willow and buffy #2 watch as buffy #1 puts the book on the shelf.
scene direction: shot of buffy #1 looking pensive. shot of her hand putting the book on the shelf.
willow: right here, it happened. i know it's something small, but...
scene direction: willow shot of buffy #1 putting the book on the shelf again
willow: it's something. what?
scene direction: buffy #2 staring at buffy #1
buffy #2: don't go there, will.
willow: i'm not! you're the one who keeps dragging me back here! a-and you wouldn't be doing that if you weren't trying to show me something.
scene direction: buffy #2 looks at her
buffy #2: do i?
willow: buffy, come on. i-it's your brain. just tell me.
scene direction: they both look back over at the bookshelf. shot of buffy #1 putting the book on the shelf yet again.
willow: what happened here?
scene direction: shot of buffy #2 watching.
scene direction: buffy #1 not turning
buffy #1: this was when i quit, will.
scene direction: shot of willow standing beside buffy #2, both staring at buffy #1.
willow: you did?
buffy #2: just for a second.
scene direction: shot of willow and buffy sitting in the darkened bedroom.
buffy voiceover: i remember.
scene direction: cut back to the magic shop.
scene direction: buffy #1 facing willow
buffy #1: i was in the magic shop.
buffy #2: i put a book back for giles.
buffy #1: nothing special about it. and then it hit me.
willow: what hit you?
buffy #2: i can't beat glory.
buffy #1: glory's going to win.
scene direction: willow turns to buffy #2
willow: you can't know that.
scene direction: buffy #2 turns to willow
buffy #2: i didn't just know it.
scene direction: buffy #1 staring at nothing
buffy #1: i felt it. glory will beat me.
scene direction: buffy #2 looks away
buffy #2: and in that second of knowing it, will...
buffy #1: i wanted it to happen.
willow: why?
buffy #1: i wanted it over. this is ... all of this ... it's too much for me.
scene direction: buffy #2 staring at nothing
buffy #2: i just wanted it over.
buffy #1: if glory wins ... then dawn dies.
buffy #2: and i would grieve. people would feel sorry for me.
scene direction: buffy #2 looks at willow
buffy #2: but it would be over.
scene direction: buffy #2 looks away
buffy #2: and i imagined what a relief it would be.
scene direction: willow looks over at the bookcase. buffy #1 yet again puts the book on the shelf.
buffy #2: i killed dawn.
scene direction: willow frowns, looks at buffy #2.
willow: is that what you think?
scene direction: shot of the "real" buffy sitting blankly in the bedroom.
buffy voiceover: my thinking it made it happen.
scene direction: cut back to the magic shop.
buffy #1: some part of me wanted it. and in the moment glory took dawn...
buffy #2: i know i could have done something better. but i didn't. i was off by some fraction of a second.
buffy #1: and this is why...
buffy #2: ...i killed my sister.
scene direction: willow frowns, looks from one buffy to the other. buffy #1 puts the book on the shelf again.
willow: i think spike was right back at the gas station.
scene direction: willow loudly
willow: snap out of it!
scene direction: buffy #2 looks at willow in surprise. buffy #1 whirls away from the bookcase.
buffy #1: what?
buffy #2: what?
willow: all this ... it has a name. it's called guilt.
scene direction: willow the two buffys exchange a look
willow: it's a feeling, and it's important.
scene direction: willow to buffy #2
willow: but it's not more than that, buffy.
scene direction: willow glances at buffy #1
willow: buffys.
scene direction: the buffys both look pensive.
willow: you've carried the weight of the world on your shoulders since high school. and i, i know you didn't ask for this, but ... you do it every day. and so, you wanted out for one second. so what?
scene direction: buffy #2 pensive
buffy #2: i got dawn killed.
willow: hello! your sister, not dead yet! but she will be if you stay locked inside here and never come back to us.
scene direction: buffy #2 looking at buffy #1
buffy #2: but what if i can't?
willow: then i guess you're right. and you did kill your sister.
scene direction: willow turns and starts walking toward the magic shop entrance. buffy #2 turns to her in alarm.
buffy #2: wait!
scene direction: shot of willow and buffy sitting in the bedroom.
buffy voiceover: where are you going?
scene direction: cut back to magic shop. willow turns back.
willow: where you're needed. are you coming?
scene direction: shot of buffy #2 staring at willow. behind buffy #2, buffy #1 walks up to the bookcase and puts the book on the shelf. pauses.
scene direction: closer shot of buffy #1 as she turns toward the others.
scene change: cut to the real buffy in the chair in the bedroom. suddenly with a start she comes to, sits up straighter, looks around, breathing heavily. longer shot of her and willow sitting there. willow stares at buffy.
scene direction: buffy turns to face willow again. suddenly she bursts into tears.
scene direction: willow gets up off the bed and kneels beside buffy's chair, puts her arms around buffy and holds her as she cries.
scene change: cut to the real magic shop. giles stands in the back making tea. sound of the door opening. giles looks through the bookcase toward the door.
giles: buffy?
scene direction: giles aside
giles: she's back.
scene direction: we see spike and xander sitting at the table beside giles.
xander: you're okay?
buffy: yeah. i'm okay.
scene direction: buffy enters, comes toward the table. behind her we see willow leading tara in, and anya closing the door behind them.
buffy: hear you found the ritual text.
giles: uh, something like that, yes.
xander: did you know that ... ben is glory?
buffy: so i'm told. what do we know?
giles: um ... well, uh ...
scene direction: giles willow, anya, and tara sit around the table
giles: ...according to these scrolls, uh, it's possible for glory to be stopped.
scene direction: giles pauses. buffy gives him a raised-eyebrow look to say, "go on".
giles: i-i'm afraid it's, um ... well, buffy, i've read these things very carefully and there's not much ... margin for error. you understand what i'm saying?
buffy: might help if you actually said it.
scene direction: giles gives a small smile, nods, puts his mug on the table and sits, removes his glasses.
giles: um ... glory ... plans to open a ... dimensional portal ... by way of a ritual bloodletting.
buffy: dawn's blood.
giles: yes.
scene direction: giles pause
giles: once the blood is shed at a certain time and place ... the fabric which separates all realities will ... be ripped apart.
scene direction: shot of willow listening while holding tara's hand; tara staring vaguely at the ceiling, and spike staring at the table.
giles: dimensions will ... pour into one another, uh, with no barriers to stop them.
scene direction: giles shot of xander and anya listening
giles: reality as we know it will be destroyed, and ... chaos will reign on earth.
buffy: so how do we stop it?
giles: the portal will only close once the blood is stopped ... and the only way for that to happen is, um ...
scene direction: zoom in on giles's face as he first avoids buffy's eyes, finally looks up at her.
giles: buffy, the only way is to kill dawn.
scene direction: buffy reacts with dismay.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producer: joss whedon 