scene direction: a quick series of scenes from the first season - the master with the anointed one; buffy and angel kissing; angel vamping out, buffy screaming; the possessed ventriloquist dummy; buffy punching someone; buffy dying; buffy killing the master, etc...
scene direction: moves into a series of scenes from the second season. they go by faster and faster. they include all the major demons and recurring characters - spike, ethan, drusilla, kendra, ted, etc. we see xander kissing cordelia, willow kissing oz, angel killing jenny calendar, willow in the hospital doing the spell to restore angel's soul, buffy killing angel.
scene direction: continues to a series of scenes from third season. includes mr. trick, xander and willow kissing, giles and joyce kissing, spike, gwendolyn post, amy turning into a rat, faith and the mayor, wesley, vampire willow, angel feeding on buffy, the climactic battle with the mayor, the high school blowing up, angel walking away.
scene direction: moving even faster, a series of scenes from fourth season. buffy going to college. the initiative. kathy, vamp harmony, oz, the gentlemen, anya dressed as a bunny, giles in mexican costume, spike getting zapped, willow and tara doing a spell in "hush," giles as a demon, adam, the initiative, faith waking up, faith in buffy's body, the destruction of the initiative, buffy, xander, willow, giles doing their unification spell, the first slayer, etc.
scene direction: and finally a series of scenes from fifth season that go by very fast. buffy and dawn, joyce, spike, glory, riley, the helicopter taking riley away, ben morphing into glory, the april-bot, joyce dying, willow and tara kissing, glory taking tara's brain, the return of the first slayer, the buffy-bot, willow zapping glory, glory tearing down the dorm wall, the fight between the winnebago and the knights on horseback.
scene direction: you should realize that all of the above flashes by much too fast to really see. the scenes from first season probably last for about ten frames each and by the time it gets to fifth season, they flash by two frames at a time.
scene direction: so the sense of increasing speed and urgency carries us into an alleyway as the "previously" scenes meld into the episode. the camera moves down the alley as from the pov of someone running. fast, urgent music.
scene direction: we go around a corner and see the person who's running. it's a teenage boy. he rounds the corner and stops, seeing that he's in a dead end. slowly, fearfully, he turns.
scene direction: shot of the corner he just came around.
scene direction: the kid moves very slowly back toward the corner, very scared.
scene direction: suddenly someone steps around the corner. it's a large male vampire. the kid starts, takes a step back.
scene direction: the vampire strides forward with a small smile.
vamp: gave me a pretty good run there. bet the blood's just pumpin'.
scene direction: the boy backs away, frightened.
scene direction: vamp advancing
vamp: bet it's hot.
scene direction: kid voice breaking
kid: don't hurt me.
vamp: don't hurt you?
scene direction: vamp laughs
scene direction: suddenly one of the doors along the alley opens and buffy's head pops out.
scene direction: buffy innocently
buffy: hey, what's going on?
scene direction: the vamp turns his head to glare at her.
kid: help me! call the police!
vamp: get outta here, girl.
scene direction: vamp turns back to the kid
scene direction: buffy emerging from the doorway
buffy: you guys havin' a fight? 'cause, you know, fighting's not cool.
scene direction: the vampire turns to glare at her again.
kid: get out of here!
vamp: no.
scene direction: vamp turns fully toward buffy
vamp: no, she wants to stay. i don't mind a little appetizer.
scene direction: buffy small frown, walks forward
buffy: have you ever heard the expression, 'biting off more than you can chew'?
scene direction: the vamp frowns, shakes his head.
buffy: okay. um ... how about the expression, 'vampire slayer'?
vamp: what the hell you talkin' about?
buffy: wow. never heard that one. okay. how about, 'oh god, my leg, my leg'?
scene direction: the vampire growls and lunges at her. she ducks his grab, punches him in the face and kicks his leg. his knee buckles and he falls to the ground.
vamp: oh god! my leg! uhh...
buffy: see? now we're communicating.
scene direction: the vamp surges up, grabs buffy and throws her against the wall. he grabs her again but she pushes his arms away, punches him in the face, knees him, then goes around behind him and kicks him into the wall. he lands against a dumpster, turns and backhands buffy, who stumbles forward toward the boy. the boy leaps out of the way. the vamp punches buffy again, picks her up and slams her down on top of another dumpster.
scene direction: shot of the kid cowering in the corner.
scene direction: buffy kicks the vamp, cartwheels off the dumpster and kicks him again, then again, and then yet again. on the final kick he lands on his back among a pile of wooden boxes. they all shatter.
scene direction: one of the shards of wood flies toward buffy and she catches it. as the vampire lunges up out of the boxes, she stakes him with the piece of wood. the boy watches in shock.
scene direction: the vamp turns to dust. buffy drops the makeshift stake and stares at the pile of dust as the boy continues to cower in the background.
buffy: wow. been a long while since i met one who didn't know me.
scene direction: she turns to go, pauses and looks at the kid.
buffy: you should get home.
scene direction: she begins walking back toward the door she came out of.
kid: h-how'd you do that?
scene direction: angle on buffy's back as she walks toward the door. she doesn't turn or stop as she replies.
buffy: it's what i do.
kid: but you're ... you're just a girl.
scene direction: buffy pauses in the doorway.
buffy: that's what *i* keep saying.
scene direction: she walks through the door.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on buffy coming in the back door of the magic shop, walking down the hall and into the main room. we see xander sitting at the round table with giles beside him looking at books, and spike sitting behind them on the ladder leading up to the loft, smoking a cigarette.
xander: something goin' on out back?
scene direction: buffy walks over to table
buffy: vampire.
xander: oh.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: anything?
scene direction: angle on giles sitting at the table with a few books open in front of him.
giles: nothing you want to hear. the ritual is, uh...
buffy: explain it again.
giles: there's nothing new to-
buffy: go through it again.
scene direction: everyone looks nervously at buffy. we see willow sitting at the table on xander's other side. giles slowly removes his glasses.
scene direction: shot of anya standing to the side.
giles: the key was ... living energy. it needed to be channeled, poured into a specific place at a specific time. the energy ... would flow into that spot, the walls between the dimensions break down. it stops, the energy's used up, the walls come back up. glory uses that time to get back into her own dimension, not caring that all manner of hell will be unleashed on earth in the meantime.
scene direction: buffy looks grim.
anya: um, but only for a little while, right? the walls come back up, uh, n-no more hell?
willow: that's only if the energy is stopped. and now the key is human ...
scene direction: willow looks over her shoulder at buffy
willow: ...is dawn.
scene direction: giles reads from book
giles: "the blood flows, the gates will open. the gates will close when it flows no more."
scene direction: giles removes his glasses
giles: when dawn is dead.
scene direction: pause.
tara: i have places to be!
scene direction: everyone looks over at tara, who is curled up in a chair to the side. she falls silent again and they return to their conversation.
xander: why blood? why dawn's blood? i mean, why couldn't it be like a, a lymph ritual?
spike: 'cause it's always got to be blood.
xander: we're not actually discussing dinner right now.
spike: blood is life, lackbrain. why do you think we eat it? it's what keeps you going. makes you warm. makes you hard. makes you other than dead.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: course it's her blood.
buffy: pretty simple math here. we stop glory before she can start the ritual. we still have a couple of hours, right?
giles: if my calculations are right. but buffy-
buffy: i don't wanna hear it.
scene direction: buffy turns away
giles: i understand that-
scene direction: buffy whirls back
buffy: no! no, you don't understand. we are not talking about this.
scene direction: giles jumps up from the table, yells
giles: yes, we bloody well are!
scene direction: beat. everyone looks shocked by giles' outburst.
scene direction: giles quieter
giles: if glory begins the ritual ... if we can't stop her...
buffy: come on. say it. we're bloody well talking about this. tell me to kill my sister.
scene direction: giles whispers
giles: she's not your sister.
scene direction: buffy pause
buffy: no. she's not. she's more than that. she's me. the monks made her out of me. i hold her ... and i feel closer to her than ...
scene direction: buffy looks down, sighs
buffy: it's not just the memories they built. it's physical. dawn ... is a part of me. the only part that i-
scene direction: buffy stops
willow: we'll solve this. we will. don't have another coma, okay?
scene direction: buffy gives a small smile.
scene direction: giles quietly
giles: if the ritual starts, then every living creature in this and every other dimension imaginable will suffer unbearable torment and death ...
scene direction: giles looks up at buffy
giles: including dawn.
buffy: then the last thing she'll see is me protecting her.
scene direction: giles quietly
giles: you'll fail. you'll die. we all will.
scene direction: giles turns away from the table
buffy: i'm sorry.
scene direction: shot of the others looking at her as giles walks slowly away.
buffy: i love you all ... but i'm sorry.
scene direction: she turns away too. giles turns back to look at her. beat.
scene direction: anya loudly
anya: okay.
scene direction: anya raises her hand
anya: all in favor of stopping glory *before* the ritual. suggestions, ideas?
scene direction: anya snapping her fingers
anya: time's a-wastin'.
spike: uh ... when you say you love us all...
scene direction: xander and giles in unison
xander and giles: shut up.
anya: willow. i bet you've got some dark spell a-brewin'. uh, make her a, a, a toad? little hoppy toad, we can hit her with a hammer?
scene direction: tara giggling
tara: hoppy toad.
xander: what about ben? he can be killed, right? i mean, i know he's an innocent, but, you know, not like dawn innocent. we could kill a ... regular guy.
scene direction: pause while everyone considers this and xander realizes what he's said.
scene direction: xander softly, in self-disgust
xander: god.
giles: it's doubtful he'll surface again this close to the ritual. we can expect it's glory we're dealing with.
willow: we don't have to kill her. uh, we just have to stop her from doing the ritual. i mean, there's only the one time that she can do it, right?
spike: yeah. we get her on the ropes, we just gotta keep her occupied till it's too late.
anya: okay. but i'm still not hearing enough ideas. she's a god. let's think outside the box.
spike: why don't *you* go think outside the bleeding box.
giles: yes, anya, apart from your incredibly uninfectious enthusiasm, have you anything else to contribu-
anya: the dagon sphere!
giles: sorry?
anya: when buffy first met glory, she found that magical ...
scene direction: anya gestures
anya: glowy sphere that was meant to repel glory. we've got it in the basement.
scene direction: anya everyone looks surprised
anya: it might drive her away or hurt her. ooh!
scene direction: anya hurries over to a display case, gestures like a game-show hostess.
anya: and olaf the troll god's enchanted hammer.
scene direction: we see the hammer (episode "triangle") on a shelf.
anya: you wanna fight a god, use the weapon of a god.
scene direction: buffy walks over to check out the hammer.
spike: uh, nah, that thing's too heavy to-
scene direction: spike buffy picks it up easily
spike: yeah. good.
buffy: i like this.
scene direction: buffy to anya
buffy: thanks.
anya: here to help. wanna live.
xander: smart chicks are soooo hot.
scene direction: xander looking fondly at anya
willow: you couldn't have figured that out in tenth grade?
scene direction: willow and xander exchange a smile.
giles: well, we have some ideas, if we could actually get glory on the run, but, um...
buffy: but, we still have no idea how to find her.
tara: big day. oh, it calls me! i have to be there!
scene direction: everyone looks at tara, then at buffy. buffy looks thoughtful.
tara: big day!
scene change: cut to ben entering the back room at the warehouse. he still wears the ceremonial robe and is holding a pile of clothing. a few minions are in the background.
scene direction: shot of dawn sitting on the floor with her knees up to her chest, eyes closed. ben walks over to her.
ben: they, uh ... said you have to put this on ... for the ceremony.
dawn: what if i don't?
ben: come on, just-
dawn: what if i don't like the color?
ben: look, i ... i wish there was another way.
dawn: and i wish you'd fall on your head and drown in your own barf, so ...
scene direction: dawn shrugs
dawn: i guess we're both disappointed.
ben: i think ... it'll be quick.
minion: actually, sir, the bleeding is quite a slow process to give the portal time to-
scene direction: ben annoyed
ben: thank you ... for the information.
scene direction: ben to dawn
ben: i'll do what i can to-
dawn: change.
ben: what?
dawn: change. be her. i don't wanna look at you.
scene direction: ben shakes head
ben: dawn, i don't think you wanna-
dawn: be glory. be glory.
scene direction: dawn yelling
dawn: glory! glory! glory!
ben: will you just stop-
scene direction: ben morphs into glory
glory: -shouting already?
scene direction: dawn scowls.
glory: huh.
scene direction: glory shakes out the garment she's holding. it's a medieval-style dress. she examines it, then turns to dawn.
glory: so, what's the hubbub, bub?
scene direction: glory sits in a chair
glory: what do you got against old benjy?
dawn: he's a monster. at least you're up-front about it.
scene direction: glory picking at the hem of the dress
glory: don't be so hard on the boy. he just wants to live. most guys would do the same. besides, he's probably the reason your sis and her little cartoon pals are still alive. that little nagging pinch of humanity that makes me go for the hurt instead of the kill.
scene direction: glory looks at dawn
glory: lowering myself to trade blows with the slayer when i should have just put my fist through her heart.
scene direction: glory stands up and holds up the dress to look at it.
glory: it's gotta be ben.
dawn: or maybe you just can't take her.
scene direction: glory tosses the dress to dawn, who takes hold of one end. glory is still holding the other end and she suddenly yanks on it, pulling dawn to her feet. they face off.
glory: hmm, funny thing. you've been here for a few hours now, and i haven't seen big sis galloping in to save you. she probably knows what a terrible mistake that'd be.
dawn: she's not afraid of you.
glory: oh no, sweetie baby. i'm talking about the ritual. 'cause you know i bleed you, the portals open, but once you die they close. the faster you die, the better for your sorry species.
scene direction: glory puts her hand on the side of dawn's face. dawn looks scared.
glory: i'm bettin' buffy knows that. since she's not really your sister, i'm guessin' she isn't gonna show. and if she does...
scene direction: dawn winces in pain as glory's fingers tighten on her head.
glory: ...it might not be to save you.
scene direction: glory shoves dawn aside. she falls to the floor on top of a grating. glory smirks at her.
scene direction: angle on dawn's face, shooting up from below as her face is pressed against the grating.
scene direction: dawn whispers
dawn: buffy.
scene change: cut to buffy in the workout room, punching the punching-bag. she alternates hands and hits it with a steady rhythm. the camera pulls out and reveals giles entering, walking toward her.
giles: you sure you're not going to tire yourself out?
scene direction: buffy stops punching
buffy: i'm sure.
scene direction: she resumes punching. close shot on buffy's face with giles out of focus in the background.
giles: we're ... still working on ideas.
scene direction: giles buffy stops punching
giles: time's short, but, uh, best leave it to the last moment.
scene direction: giles buffy stretching her arms
giles: if we go in too early and she takes us out, no chance of getting her to miss her window.
buffy: then we wait.
scene direction: buffy gives one last punch that breaks the punching bag off its chain. it falls to the floor. buffy stares at it, gives her arm a shake.
giles: i imagine you hate me right now.
scene direction: same angle on buffy with giles in the background, her back to him. she sighs but doesn't answer. giles takes a few steps closer.
giles: i love dawn.
buffy: i know.
giles: but i've sworn to protect this sorry world, and sometimes that means saying and doing ... what other people can't. what they shouldn't have to.
scene direction: buffy turns to face him.
buffy: you try and hurt her, and you know i'll stop you.
giles: i know.
scene direction: overhead shot of the two of them. buffy walks slowly over to the sofa in the corner and sits. giles paces slowly over to the sofa as well.
buffy: this is how many apocalypses for us now?
giles: oh, uh, well...
scene direction: giles sits, takes off his glasses
giles: six, at least.
scene direction: giles sits back slowly
giles: feels like a hundred.
buffy: i've always stopped them. always won.
giles: yes.
buffy: i sacrificed angel to save the world.
scene change: cut to close angle on buffy's face.
buffy: i loved him so much. but i knew ... what was right. i don't have that any more. i don't understand. i don't know how to live in this world if these are the choices. if everything just gets stripped away. i don't see the point. i just wish that...
scene direction: buffy tearfully
buffy: i just wish my mom was here.
scene direction: she gets up, walks a few paces away, turns to face giles.
buffy: the spirit guide told me ... that death is my gift. guess that means a slayer really is just a killer after all.
giles: i think you're wrong about that.
buffy: it doesn't matter. if dawn dies, i'm done with it. i'm quitting.
scene direction: she walks out, leaving giles sitting on the sofa alone.
scene change: cut to the warehouse. dawn is now wearing the ritual dress. she has her other clothing folded in a neat pile and carries it over to the chair, lays the clothing down on the chair, kneels beside the chair.
scene direction: shot of glory off to the side, writing something. a minion goes to her and whispers.
scene direction: dawn kneels by the chair and arranges her sneakers neatly in front of the chair. she looks up when glory begins to speak.
glory: okay, campers, it's almost stab time.
scene direction: glory smiling
glory: you two, get her.
scene direction: two minions move toward dawn, who looks scared and backs away.
dawn: no. no! aah!
scene direction: dawn screams
dawn: buffy!
scene direction: she continues to scream as the minions grab her arms and drag her away. glory watches them go with a smile.
glory: see you in a few.
scene change: cut to outside. the minions drag dawn into the courtyard area where the crazy people are still working. sparks fly from someone's welding. dawn looks up apprehensively.
scene direction: shot of a huge metal tower, basically build out of scaffolding. it stretches into the air above the warehouse. at the top, a narrow walkway protrudes out into the air. we see the tower first from dawn's perspective, on the ground looking up; and then a longer shot from the side.
scene direction: dawn continues to stare up at the tower as the minions lead her to some stairs at the base of the tower and they begin to climb.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on giles in the magic shop, walking over to a door and opening it. it leads down some stairs into the basement, which is cluttered as any basement tends to be.
scene direction: giles calling
giles: any luck? have you found the dagon sphere?
scene direction: pan down to the basement. anya emerges from behind the stairs, wearing a bra, quickly putting on her blouse.
scene direction: anya calling
anya: um, i'm sure it's here, just be a minute!
scene direction: xander emerges as well, fastening his pants.
scene direction: xander calling
xander: yeah, we're on it! let's look over here, where we didn't look yet.
scene direction: xander and anya continue fastening their clothing. the angle is such that giles can't see them.
scene direction: giles os
giles: time is a factor.
anya: yes. yes. not to worry.
scene direction: sound of the door closing. anya picks up a clipboard and examines it.
xander: so, are you more, uh ... relaxed?
scene direction: anya looking through boxes
anya: no.
xander: no? i mean, it sounded like you, uh ...
scene direction: xander paces past her
xander: arrived.
scene direction: anya distracted
anya: no.
scene direction: anya tunes back in to the conversation
anya: yes. um, i had the pleasure moment, and the blissful calm that comes right after it. but that only lasted a couple of seconds, and now i'm terrified again.
xander: well, you don't have to be.
scene direction: anya moves toward another pile of stuff. xander turns and pulls down a drop-cloth, revealing the buffy bot.
xander: gah!
scene direction: he leaps back, making anya jump as well.
anya: what?
scene direction: they both stare at the bot. it sits there with eyes open, unmoving.
xander: spike's sex-bot. why didn't they just melt it down into scrap?
scene direction: anya moves away as xander continues staring at the bot.
anya: maybe willow wanted it.
scene direction: xander turns to her
xander: i don't think willow feels that way about, about buffy. i mean, i know she's gone through a lot of changes, but-
anya: to study it.
xander: right. robotics.
scene direction: xander embarrassed 
xander: science.
scene direction: xander moves to another pile of stuff and they both continue looking, separately.
anya: pervert.
xander: other pervert.
anya: and don't frighten me like tha-aah!
scene direction: she shrieks as she sees something in another box. xander comes over to look.
anya: god, who, who would put something like that there? is this supposed to be some sort of sick joke?
scene direction: she picks it up. it's a small toy bunny.
anya: i mean, things aren't bad enough!
scene direction: anya pause
anya: this is an omen.
xander: hey, hey, shh.
scene direction: xander rubs her shoulders
anya: no, no, it's an omen. it's a higher power, trying to tell me through bunnies that we're all gonna die. oh god.
xander: no it's not.
scene direction: anya puts the bunny back in the box as xander puts his arms around her waist from behind.
xander: it's okay.
anya: no, you see, usually when there's an apocalypse, i skedaddle. but now i love you so much that instead i have inappropriately timed sex and try to think of ways to fight a god ... and worry terribly that something might happen to you. and also worry that something'll happen to me. and then i have guilt that i'm not more worried about everyone else, but i just don't have enough! i'm just on total overload, and i honestly don't think that i could be more nervous than i am right now.
xander: care to wager on that?
scene direction: xander lifts his hand into the shot. he holds a small box, open to reveal the ring inside.
scene direction: anya stares at it. xander lets her go and she turns to face him, still looking at the ring.
xander: anya ... you wanna marry me?
scene direction: anya stares at him a moment, then slaps him across the face.
xander: can i take that as a "maybe"?
anya: you're proposing to me!
xander: yes...
anya: you're proposing to me 'cause we're gonna die! and you think it's romantic and sexy and, and you know you're not gonna have to go through with it 'cause the world's gonna end!
xander: i'm proposing to you, anya, because it's not.
anya: you can't know that.
xander: i believe it. i think we're gonna get through this. i think i'm gonna live a long ... and silly life, and i'm not interested in doing that without you around.
scene direction: anya softly
anya: oh. okay.
scene direction: xander wide-eyed
xander: okay?
anya: yes.
scene direction: anya small smile
anya: i mean, yes.
scene direction: they both smile happily and look down at the ring. xander begins removing the ring from the box as anya holds up her hands. then she stops him.
anya: no.
xander: no?
anya: after. give it to me when the world doesn't end.
scene direction: xander smiles slightly. anya puts her arms around his neck and they kiss.
scene change: cut to the main magic shop room. willow sits at the table reading books while tara naps behind her. buffy walks up.
buffy: will, what do you got for me?
willow: some ideas.
scene direction: willow buffy goes to sit on the stairs leading up to the loft
willow: well, notions. or, theories based on wild speculation. did i mention i'm not good under pressure?
buffy: i need you, will. you're my big gun.
scene direction: willow alarmed
willow: i'm your - no, i-i was never a gun. someone else should be the gun. i, i could be a, a cudgel. or, or a pointy stick.
buffy: you're the strongest person here. you know that, right?
scene direction: willow frowns
willow: well ... no.
buffy: will, you're the only person that's ever hurt glory. at all. you're my best shot at getting her on the ropes, so don't get a jelly belly on me now.
willow: well ... i, i ... do sort of have this one idea. but, last few days, i've mostly been looking into ways to help tara. i-i know that shouldn't be my priority...
scene direction: buffy leans over and puts her hand on willow's knee.
buffy: of course it should.
scene direction: willow smiles gratefully. buffy leans back.
willow: well, i've been charting their essences. mapping out. i think ... if i can get close enough, i may be able to reverse what glory did. like, take back what she took from tara. it might weaken glory, or ... make her less coherent. or it might make all our heads explode.
scene direction: giles os
giles: buffy.
scene direction: buffy looks up. across the room we see giles, xander, and anya gathered around something.
willow: i'll try to work it.
scene direction: buffy gets up and walks away, putting her hand briefly on willow's shoulder as she passes.
scene direction: willow gets up and goes to crouch beside tara's chair.
willow: don't worry, love. it won't be long.
scene direction: tara slaps her hard across the face.
scene direction: tara angrily
tara: bitch! i'm supposed to work on the factors!
scene direction: willow just looks at her sadly. the anger passes and tara becomes anxious.
tara: i'm, i'm not ... i'm not...
scene direction: tara puts her hand gently on willow's cheek and begins to cry. willow looks at her with tears in her eyes as well.
willow: i'm gonna bring you back.
scene direction: cut over to the others gathered together. giles is holding the dagon sphere.
buffy: no. no, no, that's good. that could be pivotal.
scene direction: buffy to anya and xander
buffy: thank you guys.
giles: well, um, you're gonna need some-
buffy: way ahead of you. we have time?
giles: yes, if you hurry.
buffy: okay. i'll grab some weapons too.
scene direction: buffy we see spike appearing behind giles
xander: i'm looking for something in a broadsword.
spike: don't be swingin' that thing near me.
scene direction: spike buffy takes the sphere from giles, examines it
xander: hey, i happen to be-
spike: a glorified bricklayer?
scene direction: xander looks around at the others
xander: i'm also a swell bowler.
anya: has his own shoes.
spike: the gods themselves do tremble.
buffy: spike, shut your mouth, come with me.
scene direction: buffy hands the sphere to giles and strides out. spike looks surprised, follows her.
scene change: cut to buffy entering the summers house with spike behind her. it's dark outside.
buffy: the weapons are in the chest by the tv, i'll grab the stuff upstairs.
scene direction: she moves toward the stairs, not realizing that spike has stopped at the door.
spike: uh, buffy...
scene direction: she turns back to him. spike lifts his hand in a little wave. buffy frowns, still not getting it.
spike: if you wanna just hand them over the threshold, i'll...
buffy: come in, spike.
scene direction: spike looks surprised and pleased. he takes a slow step over the threshold, smiles.
spike: hmm. presto. no barrier.
scene direction: they look at each other for a moment, then spike breaks away, walks into the living room.
spike: um, won't bother with the small stuff. couple of good axes should hold off glory's mates while you take on the lady herself.
scene direction: spike opens the chest, begins taking stuff out
buffy: we're not all gonna make it. you know that.
spike: yeah.
scene direction: he takes a few weapons from the chest and walks back toward buffy.
spike: hey. always knew i'd go down fightin'.
buffy: i'm counting on you ... to protect her.
spike: till the end of the world. even if that happens to be tonight.
buffy: i'll be a minute.
spike: yeah.
scene direction: buffy turns to go up the stairs. spike watches her go.
spike: i know you'll never love me.
scene direction: buffy pauses halfway up the stairs, turns back to look at spike.
spike: i know that i'm a monster. but you treat me like a man. and that's...
scene direction: buffy gazes silently at him.
spike: get your stuff, i'll be here.
scene direction: she turns and continues up the stairs.
scene change: cut to the top of the tower. the minions are tying dawn to the tower with rope. she stands there looking scared. the wind blows her hair around.
scene direction: angle downward from dawn's pov. we see her bare feet on the edge of the platform, and far below we can see the crazy people moving around.
scene direction: the minions finish tying dawn up and turn to leave. one of them looks back.
minion: she will come to you soon.
scene direction: the camera pulls slowly back on dawn standing at the end of the platform with the city lights behind and below her.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. pan quickly across xander and anya looking at each other, tara looking at stuff in a display case. willow appears from the back as buffy and spike enter, carrying weapons. they walk over to the office area.
buffy: we on schedule?
scene direction: spike goes to put the weapons down on the desk beside giles, who is also holding an axe.
giles: yes, it's time.
scene direction: pan back over to buffy.
buffy: will?
scene direction: willow nods, goes over to tara who is still staring at the merchandise.
willow: tara, baby? is there somewhere you should be?
scene direction: tara looks over at buffy, doesn't look at willow.
tara: they held me down.
willow: no one's holding you. it's the big day, right?
scene direction: both willow and tara look at buffy. shot of buffy looking concerned.
willow: do you wanna go?
scene direction: tara looks anxiously from buffy to willow and back again. she turns and begins to walk toward buffy and the door. she passes spike and giles in the background, spike packing up weapons as giles unsheathes a sword.
scene direction: tara points to giles
tara: you're a killer.
scene direction: tara giles and spike look at her in surprise
tara: this is all set down.
scene direction: tara continues walking out. giles puts his axe in spike's bag.
scene direction: willow, following tara, draws alongside buffy as tara heads for the door.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: stay close but don't crowd her. we'll follow in a minute.
scene direction: willow starts out again, stops when buffy begins to address the others.
buffy: everybody knows their jobs. remember, the ritual starts, we all die. and i'll kill anyone who comes near dawn.
scene direction: buffy turns and walks off. willow turns to the open door and leaves.
scene direction: angle on giles and spike. giles is clutching his side where he was speared in "spiral." spike glances at giles, then back in the direction buffy went.
spike: well, not exactly the st. crispin's day speech, was it?
giles: we few...
scene direction: giles goes past spike as spike gathers up the bag of weapons.
giles: ...we happy few.
spike: we band of buggered.
scene direction: they exit.
scene change: cut to exterior city street, night. tara walks along the sidewalk, picking at the cast on her hand. the camera pulls out to reveal willow walking a few paces behind, with the others following farther behind that.
scene direction: tara comes around a corner, pauses to gaze upward for a moment, then continues. the others follow, now all in a group. spike carries a crossbow, anya a baseball bat. spike also has the bag of weapons on her back. they all stop walking and look up.
scene direction: shot from below of the tower rising up into the air above them.
scene direction: they all stare at it.
xander: shpadoinkle.
anya: what is that?
giles: the portal must open up there.
buffy: will, you're up.
scene direction: close angle on willow's face.
giles: need anything?
willow: could use a little courage.
scene direction: spike's hand comes into the shot, holding a small flask in front of willow's face.
willow: the real kind.
scene direction: spike looks over at her. she looks at him.
willow: but thanks.
scene direction: spike nods, puts the flask away.
scene direction: shot of the tower. people are walking toward it as sparks (from welding) come from the yard below.
scene change: cut to the warehouse. the crazy people are still doing various things with machinery and metal. pan over to the entrance as tara enters, finally pulling the cast off her hand and tossing it aside. she walks in muttering to herself, goes over to a pile of bricks and picks one up.
scene direction: a hand grabs tara's shoulder from behind and spins her around.
glory: you. what are you doing here?
scene direction: willow appears beside glory.
willow: she's with me.
scene direction: willow grabs both glory's and tara's heads. they all scream as blue lightning begins to flicker around them. bright blue light appears to stream from glory's head to tara's.
scene direction: suddenly a blast of power separates them. all three go flying in different directions. willow crashes into a pile of wood.
scene direction: glory lands on her back on the concrete, sits up as several minions run over.
glory: what the frickin' hell did that bitch do to me?
scene direction: the minions look at each other, then at glory.
scene direction: minion anxiously
minion: you look fine. truly.
scene direction: glory clutching her head
glory: she made a little ... she made a hole. uh, i need a brain to eat.
minion: oh, take mine, oh groove-tastic one!
scene direction: minion bows
glory: i said a brain, you worthless dirt!
scene direction: she puts a hand to her forehead and begins to walk, distractedly, as the minions follow her with concern.
glory: big day. i got places to be, big day. need a brain.
scene direction: she looks at something directly in front of her, scoffs.
glory: suppose i could always use yours.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: okay then.
scene direction: buffy stands there with her hands clasped behind her back. the camera zooms in on her.
buffy: come and get it.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on glory still staring at buffy. glory starts to smile, then looks away and moves her arms as if in pain.
scene direction: buffy innocently
buffy: you don't seem very well.
glory: your little witch bitch ... gave me kind of a headache there.
scene direction: glory removes her ceremonial robe, revealing the simple black dress underneath
glory: but if you think this is gonna last more than eight seconds-
buffy: i noticed you're talking, whereas in your position, i would attack me.
scene direction: the minions have taken glory's robe as she continues to stand there looking weakened.
minion: oh, most sweaty-naughty-feelings-causing one, should we...
glory: go guard the girl. this is a ... this is a, a...
minion: diversionary tactic?
glory: go guard!
scene direction: the minions scurry away. they pull a bunch of crazies away from their work and gather them around the base of the stairs leading up to the tower.
scene direction: cut back to glory still standing there unsteadily.
buffy: it's strange, you're not as blurry with speed as usual either.
glory: the witch...
buffy: it's not her.
scene direction: buffy produces the dagon sphere from behind her.
buffy: might be this.
scene direction: glory looks alarmed.
buffy: i heard it's supposed to repel you. so my guess is ... you probably shouldn't touch it, either.
scene direction: buffy tosses the sphere at glory, who catches it instinctively. the sphere lights up and seems to warp the air around it when it touches glory's hand. she makes a pained face, drops her hand to her side.
scene direction: close shot on glory's hand holding the sphere. she slowly crushes the sphere and the light goes out as it crumbles.
glory: you're gonna wish you-
scene direction: buffy punches her in the face. glory stumbles back and buffy kicks her, then punches her again, and again, and again.
scene direction: the minions and crazies gathered around the stairs mutter and look around nervously as the fight continues.
minion 1: stand fast! kill anyone who dares approach! this will be our day of glory!
minion 2: well punned.
minion 1: well, it just called out to me.
scene direction: suddenly an arrow appears in his chest and he falls back.
scene direction: we see spike holding his crossbow, having just shot the minion. anya and giles are beside him. they rush forward and begin fighting the minions, while spike stays behind.
scene direction: giles blocks a minion's staff while anya beats on another one with her bat.
scene direction: spike gives a loud battle cry and jumps on two minions at once, bearing them to the ground.
scene direction: giles slices at a minion with his sword.
scene direction: a minion has spike around the waist as another one approaches. spike fights them both.
scene change: cut to a wide overhead shot of the fighting. off to the side we see buffy hitting and kicking glory.
scene change: cut to above. dawn looks down and her eyes widen as she spots buffy.
scene change: cut to below. buffy flips glory over and slams her down on a pile of bricks, tries to punch her but glory rolls aside and buffy ends up punching the bricks. buffy tries to punch again and glory grabs her arms, throws her across the room.
scene direction: willow sits up among broken pieces of wood, looks at buffy fighting glory, looks over to her left.
willow: tara!
scene direction: willow half-walks, half-crawls over to where tara lies unconscious in a pile of debris.
willow: tara?
scene direction: tara's eyes open. she looks at willow.
willow: tara?
tara: w ... willow?
scene direction: willow smiles hopefully
willow: tara?
scene direction: tara tearfully
tara: willow ... i got so lost.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: i found you.
scene direction: willow kisses tara all over her face, then hugs her. they both smile happily.
willow: i will always find you.
scene direction: long shot of the two of them embracing.
scene direction: cut back to glory. she stands up straight.
glory: you know what?
scene direction: buffy punches, but glory grabs her fist.
glory: i'm feeling a little better. and now? i'm a little bored.
buffy: oh, i'm sorry. cause you're about-
scene direction: glory kicks her in the face. "buffy"'s head goes flying off, leaving her body standing. we can see the wires exposed in the neck.
scene direction: the body falls over as glory stares in bewilderment. when it hits the floor, sparks fly out of the neck.
scene direction: glory staring
glory: hey, wow, the slayer's a robot.
scene direction: glory looks around
glory: did everybody else know the slayer was a robot?
scene direction: glory smiles in triumph as the real buffy appears behind her.
buffy: glory?
scene direction: glory stops smiling, turns. buffy hits her with olaf's hammer. glory flies across the room, crashes into a wall.
buffy: you're not the brightest god in the heavens, are you?
dawn: buffy! i'm up here!
scene direction: buffy looks up as dawn screams at the top of her lungs. shot of the tower from buffy's pov. we can't really make out dawn at the end of the platform.
dawn: buffy!
scene direction: buffy runs toward the tower, leaps over a pile of bricks and onto the stairs. a minion confronts her but she punches him and throws him over the side.
scene direction: glory picks herself up, looks over and sees buffy running up the stairs.
glory: oh no you don't!
scene direction: dawn screams
dawn: buffy! i'm up here!
scene change: cut to midway up the stairs. there's one last level after which the stairs end and the only way up is via ladders. buffy is ascending onto this level as glory appears in front of her and hits her. buffy hits glory with the hammer, then glory kicks her into the scaffolding. they exchange a few more blows and buffy loses her grip on the hammer, which goes flying. it gets caught in some chain that's hanging off the tower. glory grabs another piece of chain and uses it to swing around the side, knocking buffy aside as buffy tries to reach the hammer. buffy falls aside, gets up, takes another kick from glory and swings around the scaffolding, kicks glory, ducks a punch and goes around glory, kicks her from behind.
scene direction: dawn looking down
dawn: buffy!
scene direction: buffy tries to continue climbing but glory hits her in the leg, making buffy gasp in pain. they exchange some more blows, then buffy resumes climbing up the outer scaffolding. glory goes around beside her and climbs up as well, kicks buffy as she's scaling up a pipe. buffy slides back down to the previous level.
scene direction: buffy runs up a ramp, kicks glory in the face, runs down the ramp again and manages to free the hammer. she swings it at glory and hits her a couple of times, also hits a ladder which falls aside.
scene direction: glory hits buffy in the face and she loses her balance. as she falls backward, she grabs glory and they both fall off the tower.
scene direction: they both hit the concrete below, a few feet away from each other. the hammer lands nearby.
scene direction: shot of spike still fighting two minions at once.
scene direction: buffy gets to her feet. glory does too. buffy grabs glory by the shoulders and pushes her away. glory winds up a few dozen feet away, beside a wall.
glory: you lost your hammer, sweet cheeks. what are you gonna hit me with now?
scene direction: buffy looks at the wall.
scene direction: glory turns to the wall also, just as a huge wrecking-ball crashes through the wall and into glory. it crashes through a second wall, deposits glory on the other side, and swings back.
buffy: whatever's handy.
scene direction: buffy turns and runs off.
scene change: cut to xander driving the machine that controls the wrecking ball. he shuts down the engine and sits back looking satisfied.
xander: the glorified bricklayer picks up a spare.
scene change: cut to the hammer lying on the ground. buffy grabs it as she runs past.
scene change: cut to spike, anya, and giles taking refuge behind something.
anya: has anyone noticed we're going backwards?
scene direction: spike straightens up to peek over the top of the machine. a brick hits him in the forehead. he ducks down again, looking annoyed.
spike: it's crossed my mind.
scene direction: shot of the group of crazies standing between them and the stairs, glaring at them. there are also a few minions.
scene direction: giles panting
giles: as long as ... buffy can keep glory down ... long enough, it doesn't matter.
scene direction: giles looking up at the tower
giles: there's only a few minutes left to start the ritual.
scene change: cut to buffy hitting glory with the hammer. glory doesn't seem able to fight back, just stands there reeling each time buffy hits her.
scene change: cut to dawn looking down at the fight. suddenly she looks up and gasps.
scene direction: we see doc standing at the other end of the platform, inside the tower.
dawn: you. you can help me. untie me. please. help me, she's coming.
scene direction: doc walks forward
doc: well, it seems she's running a bit late, is the thing. and, uh, if her splendidness
scene direction: doc dawn looks upset
doc: can't be here in time to bleed you...
scene direction: dawn looks scared and anxious as she realizes he's not on her side.
scene direction: doc whispers
doc: hey!
scene direction: doc winks
doc: kid. wanna see a trick?
scene direction: dawn looks fearfully at him.
scene direction: suddenly he produces a large shiny knife, holds it up in front of his face. dawn gasps and cringes. lingering shot of doc holding the knife up with a small smile.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on a shot up at the top of the tower. pan down to below.
scene direction: xander leaps over a fence and comes to join the others. spike, anya, and giles are all still crouched behind their shelter, looking up at the tower.
xander: how we doing?
anya: so far it's a tie.
giles: we haven't got up to dawn, but then neither has anyone else.
scene direction: spike still gazing up
spike: someone's up there.
scene direction: shot of the underside of the platform from their pov. it's hard to tell how many people are there.
xander: okay, we gotta charge or something.
anya: we tried that.
scene direction: zoom in on spike's face.
willow voiceover: spike. can you hear me?
scene direction: spike frowns
spike: yeah, loud and clear.
scene change: cut to willow at the other side of the warehouse, with tara behind her. her lips don't move as she communicates telepathically to spike.
willow voiceover: is there someone up there with dawn?
spike: yeah, can't tell who.
xander: are you talking to us?
willow voiceover: get up there. go now.
scene direction: spike peers out uncertainly. the crazies and minions are still in battle stance.
spike: yeah, but-
willow voiceover: go!
scene direction: spike gets up and charges out as the others stare at him in surprise.
scene direction: willow puts her hand behind her without looking back. tara puts her own hand in willow's.
scene direction: the entire crowd of minions and crazies suddenly parts into two halves like the red sea. they all yell in surprise -- an unseen force is shoving them aside as spike runs through. he reaches the stairs and leaps up them without slowing.
scene direction: spike gets to the last level, runs up the ramp and begins climbing the ladder.
scene change: cut to the top. doc produces a pocket-watch and looks at it as dawn watches him fearfully.
doc: well. what do you know?
scene direction: doc spike appears behind him
doc: it's just about that time.
dawn: spike!
scene direction: doc whirls around as spike strides slowly forward.
spike: doesn't a fella stay dead when you kill him?
doc: look who's talking.
spike: come on, doc. let's you and me have a go.
doc: i ...
scene direction: doc tapping his knife against his hand
doc: do have a prior appointment.
spike: this won't take long.
doc: no, i-i don't imagine it will.
scene direction: spike lunges forward. doc sidesteps, grabs spike around the neck, and thrusts his knife into spike's back. spike gasps. dawn gasps.
scene change: cut to below. buffy continues hitting glory with the hammer. glory has blood running out of her nose. she gives buffy an anguished look.
glory: you're just a mortal. you couldn't understand my pain.
buffy: then i'll just have to settle for causing it.
scene direction: she hits glory with the hammer again. glory reels to the side, recovers and turns back.
glory: you can't kill me.
buffy: no ...
scene direction: buffy hefts the hammer
buffy: but my arm's not even tired yet.
scene direction: she hits glory again.
scene change: cut to the bloody knife falling onto the floor of the platform. pan up spike's body as he is now standing between dawn and doc.
spike: you don't come near the girl, doc.
doc: i don't smell a soul anywhere on you. why do you even care?
spike: i made a promise to a lady.
doc: oh?
scene direction: doc's long tongue appears from his mouth, shooting out at spike, who ducks aside. doc drops to his knees and pulls spike's legs out from under him. spike falls to the floor. dawn watches anxiously as they grapple. they get to their feet, doc holding on to spike, pinning his arms behind him.
doc: then i'll send the lady your regrets.
scene direction: spike gives dawn an agonized look.
scene direction: spike whispers
spike: no.
scene direction: doc pushes spike over the edge.
scene direction: dawn screams
dawn: aah! no!
scene direction: spike falls to the ground below, lands amid a pile of bricks and makes a pained face.
scene change: cut to glory falling to her knees. she looks up at buffy, gasping, on the verge of tears.
glory: stop it.
buffy: you're a god.
scene direction: buffy hits glory again. she falls on her back on the floor.
buffy: make it stop.
scene direction: buffy goes over to glory, kneels beside her and hits her several more times. we don't see glory during this, just buffy as she slams the hammer down over and over.
scene direction: now we see glory, lying there with blood covering half her face. she morphs into ben. buffy stops hitting.
ben: i'm sorry.
buffy: tell her it's over. she missed her shot.
scene direction: buffy ben watches her, not moving
buffy: she goes. she ever, *ever* comes near me and mine again...
ben: we won't. i swear.
scene direction: buffy drops the hammer and hurries away.
scene direction: ben lies there, gives a pained cough and smiles painfully but still doesn't move.
ben: i guess we're stuck with each other, huh baby?
scene direction: he breathes painfully. giles comes over and kneels beside him.
giles: can you move?
ben: need a ... a minute. she could've killed me.
giles: no she couldn't. never. and sooner or later glory will re-emerge, and ... make buffy pay for that mercy. and the world with her. buffy even knows that...
scene direction: giles reaches into his pocket, takes out his glasses
giles: and still she couldn't take a human life.
scene direction: shot of ben listening.
giles: she's a hero, you see.
scene direction: giles giles puts his glasses on
giles: she's not like us.
ben: us?
scene direction: giles suddenly reaches down and puts his hand over ben's nose and mouth, holding them shut. ben struggles weakly as giles keeps him still. giles keeps his calm expression throughout.
scene direction: shot of the top of the tower. sound of dawn screaming.
scene change: cut to close shot of dawn's stomach in the ceremonial dress. the knife cuts a thin slash through the material and the skin. dawn cries out and sobs in pain.
doc: shallow cuts...
scene direction: doc dawn crying
doc: shallow cuts...
scene direction: he makes another cut and dawn cries out again.
doc: let the blood ... flow ...
scene direction: shot of dawn's bare feet on the edge of the platform. blood drips over her toes.
doc: ...free.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: dawn.
scene direction: dawn gasping in pain
dawn: buffy!
scene direction: doc whirls around as buffy strides forward.
doc: this should be interesting.
scene direction: buffy doesn't even pause, just walks right past doc, giving him a push as she goes. he falls over the edge. we can hear him faintly screaming as buffy goes to dawn, who continues crying.
buffy: here.
dawn: buffy, it hurts.
scene direction: another shot of dawn's bloody feet.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: i got it. come here. you're gonna be okay.
scene direction: a few drops of dawn's blood drip over the edge. in midair they meet something, and a small circle of light appears, quickly growing.
scene direction: buffy leads dawn limping across the platform to the tower entrance. dawn stops, turns to buffy.
buffy: go!
dawn: buffy, it's started.
scene direction: buffy turns. they can both see the light of the portal.
scene direction: shot of the portal growing ever larger.
scene direction: shot of sunnydale's main street as a huge bolt of lightning opens an enormous hole in the middle of the street. people scream and run away.
scene direction: shot of the portal crackling and sending out lightning.
scene direction: shot of a large building being hit by lightning and burning to a shell in instants.
scene direction: shot of weird demon creatures in the walls of the building, screaming in pain.
scene direction: long shot of the tower with the portal hovering beside it. lightning continues to crackle out of it.
scene change: cut to below. giles stares upward. the ground shakes. the crazies and minions fall to the ground. shot of xander and anya holding each other and staring up. shot of willow and tara holding each other and staring up, turning to look in each other's eyes.
scene direction: shot of spike still recovering from his fall. he rolls aside as a crack appears in the ground he's lying on.
scene change: cut to anya and xander looking up.
anya: xander!
scene direction: anya pushes xander aside as a bolt of lightning goes by and a pile of bricks falls on anya's head.
xander: anya!
scene direction: shot of anya lying unmoving among the bricks.
scene direction: shot of the portal continuing to do its destruction.
scene change: cut to above. buffy turns back to dawn as dawn continues staring at the portal.
scene direction: dawn tearful
dawn: i'm sorry.
buffy: it doesn't matter.
scene direction: dawn tries to run past buffy but buffy grabs her.
buffy: what are you doing?
dawn: i have to jump. the energy.
buffy: it'll kill you.
scene direction: dawn softly
dawn: i know.
scene direction: dawn buffy staring at her
dawn: buffy, i know about the ritual. i have to stop it.
buffy: no.
scene direction: the tower shakes underneath them, making them both stumble.
dawn: i have to. look at what's happening.
scene direction: more lightning crackles, even larger than before. buffy looks up. a huge dragon flies out of the portal and buzzes the tower, flying away as they watch.
dawn: buffy, you have to let me go. blood starts it, and until the blood stops flowing, it'll never stop.
scene direction: buffy stares at dawn in anguish.
scene direction: dawn tearfully
dawn: you know you have to let me. it has to have the blood.
scene direction: buffy gets a realization look on her face.
scene direction: flash to spike earlier in the episode.
spike: cause it's always got to be blood.
scene direction: flash to buffy and dawn in the hospital at the end of "blood ties." buffy putting her hand to her wound, then pressing it against dawn's bloody hand.
buffy voiceover: it's summers blood. it's just like mine.
scene direction: flash to buffy earlier in this episode.
buffy: she's me. the monks made her out of me.
scene direction: flash to buffy beside the fire in "intervention."
first slayer: death is your gift.
buffy: death...
scene direction: flash back to the present. close shot on buffy's face.
first slayer voiceover: ...is your gift.
scene direction: buffy frowns. turns around slowly.
scene direction: shot of the platform extending into the air. in the distance, holes seem to be opening in the sky. the sky is growing lighter as the sun tries to rise.
scene direction: buffy looks peaceful. she turns back to dawn, who stares wide-eyed.
dawn: buffy ... no!
buffy: dawnie, i have to.
dawn: no!
buffy: listen to me. please, there's not a lot of time, listen.
scene direction: the camera pulls out on the two of them. buffy holds dawn by the upper arms and continues talking to her, although we don't hear the words. dawn begins to cry. lightning continues to crackle behind them.
scene direction: cut back to close shot of buffy. she strokes the side of dawn's face, then kisses her on the cheek. dawn continues to cry.
scene direction: buffy turns. in slow-motion, she runs down the platform as dawn stays there crying.
scene direction: buffy swan-dives off the end of the platform and into the portal.
scene direction: dawn watches, sobbing.
scene direction: buffy falls into the portal and hangs there motionless, making expressions of pain.
scene direction: long shot from below of the portal writhing and spitting.
scene direction: shot of buffy's face inside the portal.
scene direction: begin a lengthy voiceover of buffy's final words to dawn.
buffy voiceover: dawn, listen to me. listen.
scene direction: shot of dawn still crying on the platform.
buffy voiceover: i love you. i will *always* love you.
scene direction: shot of buffy in the portal.
buffy voiceover: but this is the work that i have to do.
scene direction: long shot of the portal as it shrinks to nothingness and disappears. the sun begins to rise.
scene change: cut to below. willow and tara, holding each other up, walk forward. behind them we can see giles coming forward too, and xander holding anya in his arms. they all walk forward, staring at something we can't see.
buffy voiceover: tell giles ... tell giles i figured it out. and, and i'm okay.
scene direction: the camera pulls back and we see they're all looking at buffy's lifeless body lying amid the debris. in the background we see spike trying to come forward, falling to the ground as the sunlight hits him.
scene change: cut to closer shot of spike, his face bloodied.
scene change: cut to closer shot of willow and tara as willow begins to cry.
buffy voiceover: and give my love to my friends.
scene direction: shot of xander and anya looking sadly at buffy. anya lowers her head to xander's shoulder.
buffy voiceover: you have to take care of them now.
scene direction: shot of giles looking sad.
buffy voiceover: you have to take care of each other.
scene change: giles begins to cry. cut to spike with his hands over his face, sobbing.
buffy voiceover: you have to be strong.
scene change: cut to dawn coming slowly down the stairs, holding her sides, spotting the others.
buffy voiceover: dawn, the hardest thing in this world ... is to live in it.
scene direction: dawn begins to cry again.
scene change: cut to buffy giving her speech to dawn a few minutes ago.
buffy: be brave. live.
scene direction: cut back to dawn on the stairs.
buffy voiceover: for me.
scene change: cut to graveyard, day. it's sunny and pretty with lots of trees and grass. zoom in slowly on a headstone. a small bunch of flowers lies on the grass in front of it.
scene direction: the headstone reads buffy anne summers 1981-2001 beloved sister devoted friend she saved the world a lot
scene direction: blackout.
executive producer: joss whedon.