scene direction: episode opens where "tough love" left off. buffy and dawn stand staring at glory. willow kneels on the bed next to tara who is still staring up at dawn.
scene direction: buffy whirls, grabs dawn by the hand and runs straight through the door into the dorm hallway. they crash to the floor amid broken pieces of door.
scene direction: glory laughs and starts after them. willow holds up a hand. glory suddenly can't move. she makes an angry face.
scene direction: buffy and dawn get up, run down the hall.
scene direction: willow wraps her other arm around tara, continues holding up her right hand while speaking some latin.
scene direction: glory goes flying backward, off the side of the building into some bushes.
scene direction: willow and tara get up and run out.
scene direction: buffy and dawn run through the lobby of the building. it's full of students walking, sitting, standing, talking, reading, etc. buffy still has dawn by the hand. they run to the doors and outside.
scene direction: glory comes crashing through the wall into the building. people scream and run away. glory walks forward, looks around, sees the door buffy and dawn just exited.
scene direction: glory turns into a blur as she moves forward at superhuman speed.
scene direction: buffy and dawn run across grass. more students are all around, staring as they go by.
dawn: buffy!
buffy: we have to keep moving!
dawn: i can't!
scene direction: dawn falls to the ground. buffy hauls her back up and scoops dawn up in her arms, jumps over a bench and continues running. she crosses the lawn, goes across a paved pathway, heading toward the street.
scene direction: glory, still a super-fast blur, moves across the lawn toward them.
scene direction: buffy, still carrying dawn, comes out onto the sidewalk and suddenly glory is in front of them. buffy puts dawn down and they both stare fearfully at glory.
glory: i really hate it when people touch my things.
scene direction: buffy and dawn just stand there looking scared.
glory: last words, slay-runt?
buffy: just one. truck.glory looks to her right, too late, as a huge semi smashes into her.
scene direction: buffy and dawn run off in the other direction.
scene direction: glory lands on her back on top of a parked car, smashing its roof in. she starts to sit up, then stops with a jerk.
glory: no! not now, you idiot! let go- she morphs into ben.
ben: -of my body!
scene direction: ben rolls off the car onto the ground, looks around. he's wearing glory's dress.
ben: oh, god.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on xander's apartment. dawn stands in the middle of the room telling the story.
dawn: a-and then whoosh! all of a sudden glory's standing right there in front of us,
scene direction: dawn we see giles standing listening, and buffy peering out through the closed window blinds
dawn: all skanky and blonde and thinkin' she's all that
scene direction: dawn shot of xander and anya sitting, listening
dawn: just 'cause some bumpy heads kiss her stinky feet ...
scene direction: dawn pauses, very quietly
dawn: she does have nice feet.
scene direction: dawn louder
dawn: a-and she's comin' right at us, and-
scene direction: dawn shot of the whole room. willow and tara sitting on the sofa
dawn: buffy's just standing there not even blinking, like "bring it on," and then, wham!
scene direction: dawn smacks one fist into the other hand
dawn: hell-bitch in orbit.
xander: go, buff!
giles: i knew you'd best glory eventually, i mean all-all our years of training- buffy:
scene direction: giles still staring out the window
giles: a truck hit her.
giles: oh.
anya: you threw it at her?
dawn: well, no. she more kind of waited for it to hit glory. uh, but then buffy ran really fast and we got away.
scene direction: dawn shot of willow and tara on the sofa. tara still stares blankly at dawn.
buffy: i don't know how we got away. that truck couldn't have slowed her down for more than a second.
giles: well, how isn't important, all that matters is that the two of you are safe.
scene direction: buffy scoffs, turns to look at him.
buffy: safe?
scene direction: buffy angrily
buffy: we've barely been able to manage not getting seriously dead every time we've crossed paths with glory. now that she knows that dawn is the key?
scene direction: giles and dawn look chastised.
giles: there must be something in the book of tarnis that we've missed, something we can use against glory.
scene direction: buffy turns to look out the window again.
anya: piano!
xander: because that's what we used to kill that big demon that one time!
scene direction: buffy turns to look at them with a confused frown.
xander: no wait, that-that was a rocket launcher.
scene direction: xander turns to anya
xander: ahn, what are you talking about?
anya: we should drop a piano on her. well, it always works for that creepy cartoon rabbit when he's running from that nice man with the speech impediment.
scene direction: giles rolls his eyes
giles: yes, or perhaps we could paint a convincing tunnel on the side of a mountain. let's just keep thinking, everyone.
scene direction: giles to buffy
giles: perhaps we should reassemble at the magic shop, see if there's anything- buffy: we can't fight her.
scene direction: giles surprised
giles: w-well not yet, no, but- buffy: no, not ever. she's too strong, giles. we're not gonna win this with, with stakes, or spells, or pulling out some uranium power core. she's a god and she's coming for us. so let's just not be here when she starts knocking.
anya: run away?
scene direction: buffy looks at her.
anya: finally, a sensible plan.
xander: that's not what she meant.
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: is it?
buffy: well, we can't stay here! she'll just kill us off one by one until there's no one left standing between her and dawn.
giles: buffy, we all understand the severity of the situation, but there must be another way.
scene direction: buffy harshly
buffy: no. we stay, we die. show of hands for that option.
scene direction: everyone is silent.
buffy: all right. nobody goes home, nobody tells anybody we're leaving. just pack up whatever supplies we need and that's it, we're gone.
scene direction: dawn quietly
dawn: cool. don't have to study for that geometry test.
scene direction: xander quietly
xander: what about wheels? i don't think everybody's gonna fit in the xandermobile.
buffy: just get your stuff together. i'll handle the rest.
scene direction: she turns to look out the window again.
scene change: cut to glory's apartment. ben comes down the stairs to the main room, wearing regular clothes, followed by a minion, gronx. gronx holds glory's dress and speaks with a female voice (although she looks just like the others).
gronx: this is, this is terrible. i'll never be able to mend this.
ben: not really my color anyway.
scene direction: ben sits on the arm of a sofa
gronx: oh, yes. inappropriate humor.
scene direction: gronx fake laugh
gronx: most amusing. don't suppose you know what led to this sartorial tragedy.
ben: that's not how it works, you know that.
gronx: yes, of course. i just thought maybe after her magnificent incandescence was returned to this ... manly and ...
scene direction: gronx looking ben up and down
gronx: painfully handsome assemblage ... you might have noticed something interesting? a key in human form, perhaps? lounging about unattended?
ben: if i did, do you really think i would tell you?
gronx: why do you insist on fighting the inevitable? no one can stand against her blindingly scrumptious luminescence.
ben: glory. her name is glory, and she's your god, you little scab, not mine.
gronx: with all due respect and-and fear of sharp objects, you exist, sir, only because of her divine greatness.
ben: you mean her divine failure, don't you?
scene direction: gronx squints angrily at him. ben gets up to pace.
ben: i didn't ask for any of this. i just want to be normal.
gronx: we play the hand we're dealt.
ben: nothing's mine, is it? this life, this body, it's all infected. the only thing i ever cared about she's taken away from me. you know why i wanted to be a doctor?
gronx: flattering drawstring pants?
ben: to be close to people. to witness their lives and their deaths, to be there alongside them, a part of everyday humanity.
scene direction: ben sighs
ben: maybe it's the drugs.
scene direction: ben walks past
gronx: drugs, sir?
scene direction: gronx follows him
ben: find the right combination, keep her buried where she belongs.
gronx: impossible! her magnificence can never be fully contained! she is a perfect, all-encompassing light, one you should feel honored to be bathed in.
ben: oh, yeah, i'm thrilled. especially with the part where she gets her key back and i cease to exist.
gronx: true, this oh-so-appealing form will of necessity be shrugged off.
ben: not if i get the key first.
scene direction: ben turns to leave but gronx stops him
gronx: and if you did ... what then? could you do it?
scene direction: gronx ben looks annoyed
gronx: take a human life with your own hands?
scene direction: gronx comfortingly
gronx: oblivion is such a small inconvenience in the service of a deity. accept your fate. i mean, you said it yourself. this life was never really yours anyway, was it?
ben: it doesn't matter how i came by it. it's mine. and i plan on keeping it.
scene change: cut to city street, day. willow and tara sit on a bench while giles, anya, and xander stand. they all have bags of stuff and are watching the cars go by.
anya: anybody else feel that?
willow: what?
anya: cold draft of paralyzing fear.
giles: we just need to stay calm.
scene direction: willow skeptical
willow: calm, right.
xander: hey, we gotta be like sergeant rock. cool and collected in the face of overwhelming odds.
anya: *over*whelming?
scene direction: anya turns to him
anya: how much more than whelming would that be exactly?
giles: look, everything will be all right, we just need to stay here calmly. as soon as buffy arrives- a large winnebago
scene direction: giles rv, motor home
giles: drives up and screeches to a halt in front of them. the windows are all covered with aluminum foil. the door swings open.
giles: -we'll feel oddly worse.
scene direction: they all pick up their stuff and climb into the winnebago.
scene change: cut to inside. looking from the driver's seat back, on the left there's a small kitchen area with sink; on the right, a booth with a table. farther back there's a door leading into a back bedroom.
scene direction: willow and anya look with interest at the driver's area as they and tara move to sit around the table. we see buffy sitting at the table already, studying maps.
scene direction: giles and xander enter. giles looks at the driver's area too, does a double-take.
scene direction: we see spike sitting in the driver's seat, wearing a large pair of black goggles.
scene direction: giles grimly
giles: what's he doing here?
spike: just out for a jaunt. thought i'd swing by and say howdy.
giles: out.
scene direction: buffy looks up from the table
buffy: he's here because we need him.
xander: the hell we do.
buffy: if glory finds us, he's the only one besides me that has any chance of protecting dawn.
xander: buffy, come on- buffy:
scene direction: xander jumps up angrily
xander: look, this isn't a discussion! he stays. get over it.
scene direction: she takes one of the maps and storms into the back room, slamming the door. dawn watches anxiously.
scene direction: spike grins hugely. giles glares at him.
spike: buckle up, kids. daddy's puttin' the hammer down.
scene direction: spike puts the rv in gear and begins driving. everyone clutches the walls and each other for balance.
scene direction: shot of the rv rolling down the street. the front windshield is completely covered with foil except one small rectangle that has been cut out in front of the driver's seat.
scene change: cut to interior hospital. a nurse hands a clipboard and pen to a guy wearing a baseball cap.
nurse: sign here.
scene direction: shot of the paper on the clipboard. the guy signs - first name dante, last name illegible.
scene direction: we see two other guys standing behind him, also wearing baseball caps.
nurse: okay, that should do it.
scene direction: dante nods, turns to the other men. they start to walk off. the taller man is orlando. he stares blankly ahead of him.
scene direction: dante to the other man
dante: see. did i not tell you how easy it would be for us to- nurse: hey!
scene direction: the men stop walking as in the background the nurse comes out from behind her counter. dante and the other man exchange a look. the second man begins to pull a dagger out of his jacket. the nurse comes over to them.
scene direction: nurse pointing at dante's hand
nurse: my pen.
scene direction: dante hands her the pen with a slight smile. she takes it and goes back to her desk. the other man puts away his dagger as he and dante lead orlando away.
scene change: cut to a forest. dante, orlando, and the other man move carefully down a slight rise. orlando looks around at the sunny sky and the trees with wonder.
orlando: the trees are singing water.
scene direction: dante ignores him, stops walking, looks around. rustling noise from some bushes. they look over as a man emerges from the bushes, wearing battle armor. he has the mark of the knights of byzantium on his forehead and several long scars running down the side of his face.
gregor: you have him.
dante: yes, general.
scene direction: dante and the other man remove their baseball caps, revealing the marks on their foreheads. general gregor comes forward.
dante: our brother has returned to the fold.
gregor: welcome home, orlando.
scene direction: gregor puts his hand on orlando's shoulder
gregor: i swear by my sword your sacrifice ... will not go unavenged.
scene direction: orlando seems fascinated by the medal or amulet hanging around the general's neck. he reaches out to touch it.
orlando: shiny.
gregor: yes, i suppose it is.
orlando: pretty little girl, she's shiny too.
scene direction: gregor to dante
gregor: watch him, make sure he's comfortable.
orlando: so shiny. pretty little shiny key.
gregor: the key? you've seen it?
orlando: pretty ... little shiny girl.
scene direction: gregor and dante stare at orlando.
gregor: the monks, they've made it human.
dante: we know the slayer's protecting the key. if what orlando says is true...
scene direction: gregor turns back to the bushes. we see a large number of knights standing in formation. one knight stands closer, guarding.
gregor: prepare to advance!
knight: yes sir.
scene direction: gregor turns back
gregor: we end this now.
scene direction: he stalks off with the knights following. the camera rises so we can see them emerging from the trees. some are on foot, some on horseback. hard to tell exactly how many there are, but there are a lot.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on the winnebago driving down residential streets. the hole in the foil is larger than before. it screeches around a corner.
scene change: cut to inside. giles is driving. dawn, willow, tara, anya, and xander sit around the table. spike sits on the floor beside dawn, looking irritated. willow is studying a book.
anya: shouldn't somebody be asking, "are we there yet?" willow looks up from her book briefly, then returns to it.
scene direction: anya to xander
anya: isn't that what small entertaining children do?
scene direction: xander doesn't reply. he looks ill.
dawn: that kinda only works if you know where you're going.
scene direction: anya nods, ponders. xander groans softly.
scene direction: anya calls to giles
anya: do we know where we're going yet?
spike: we'd already be somewhere if captain slowpoke would give up the wheel.
scene direction: spike giles looks annoyed
spike: hey! gramps! bloody step on it!
giles: step on what? i've driven tricycles with more power.
scene direction: everyone looks up as the vehicle jostles and bumps.
scene direction: xander groans
xander: is anybody else queasy?
scene direction: anya rubs his arm sympathetically
anya: he doesn't travel well. he's like fine shrimp.
scene direction: spike to dawn
spike: i shoulda nicked that porsche i had my eye on. there's just enough room for me, you, and big sis.
scene direction: xander gives spike a queasy glare.
spike: what?
xander: would you give it a rest, or...
spike: or what, you're gonna toss your cookies on my shoes?
xander: or you can be undead man walking. see how fast you can hitch a ride with a flaming
scene direction: xander gulps
xander: thumb.
spike: fine.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: shrimp.
scene direction: xander gags, gets up and stumbles to the front, falls into the passenger seat beside giles.
xander: that guy is bloodsuckin' the last nerve right outta me.
giles: well, buffy has a point. in a confrontation, spike may prove...
scene direction: giles looks back as spike gets up off the floor and takes the seat xander just vacated.
giles: ...useful.
scene direction: xander still queasy
xander: i don't know if buffy's thinkin' too clear on that one, or anything else right now.
scene direction: xander gulps
xander: i've never seen her so...
giles: she's ... been through more than her fair share of late. she just needs a chance to catch her breath, regroup. she'll be all right.
xander: yeah. she'll ...
scene direction: xander gulps
xander: yeah.
scene direction: shot of the rv going down the road. it seems to have left the city and is now on a highway.
scene change: cut to back inside. willow continues studying her book. dawn peers over her shoulder.
dawn: any luck?
willow: uh, if you define luck as the absence of success, plenty.
scene direction: willow shot of anya and spike listening
willow: there's a couple barrier spells, but...
scene direction: willow we see tara next to willow, staring past her at dawn
willow: they only work on a fixed locus. haven't found anything that'll work while we're still moving.
tara: so pretty, can i have one?
scene direction: tara tries to reach past willow to touch dawn. willow gently pushes tara's arm back.
scene direction: willow to tara
willow: come on.
scene direction: willow pushes tara back into her seat
dawn: anyone hungry?
anya: ooh! snacks! the secret to any successful migration.
scene direction: anya reaches into her backpack and pulls out a frying pan, reaches in again.
anya: who's up for some tasty fried meat products?
scene direction: she holds up a can of spam. no one looks interested.
scene direction: tara reaches over to the window and opens the blinds. sunlight streams in, hitting spike's hand.
spike: hey! aah!
scene direction: spike jumps away from the table as willow pulls tara back from the window.
willow: tara, no! what did i tell you?
scene direction: tara whines loudly in protest. spike cradles his smoking hand.
willow: shh.
scene direction: tara continues whimpering. willow pulls tara's head to her chest to comfort her, looks over at spike.
willow: i'm sorry. she, she didn't mean to.
scene direction: spike nods understanding.
willow: she doesn't know what she's doing.
scene direction: willow tara continues whimpering
dawn: we know.
spike: no biggie. look, the skin's already stopped smoking. you go ahead and play ... peek-a-boo with mister sunshine all you like. it keeps the ride from getting boring.
scene direction: tara upset
tara: all the light is gone.
scene direction: tara crying
willow: no, shh, baby. the light's still outside, okay?
scene direction: dawn watches with concern. willow continues trying to comfort tara.
tara: all dark. all dark.
scene change: cut to the psych ward at sunnydale hospital. all the patients, strapped down in their beds, are also saying "all dark." they repeat this over and over. then one of them says "soon" and they all start saying "soon, soon." cut to a section of floor with candles set out and symbols written on the floor in red dirt. a pair of hands throw runestones onto the symbols. the camera pulls out and we see we're in glory's apartment. gronx and murk sit on the floor casting the runes.
gronx: it's coming. the signs are in alignment, and soon victory will be in our grasp.
scene direction: gronx they smile
gronx: all we need do is seize the moment ... and squeeze until it bleeds.
scene direction: they both smile happily.
scene change: cut to the rv driving through the desert on what looks like a dirt road. mountains in the background.
scene change: cut to inside. buffy sits in the back room, leaning against the wall. the door opens and dawn peeks in.
dawn: hey. i think anya's gonna try to cook. wanna come watch the tears and recriminations?
scene direction: buffy small smile
buffy: maybe later.
scene direction: dawn starts to retreat, pauses, leans back in and gathers her nerve.
dawn: thanks.
scene direction: buffy looks up
buffy: for what?
dawn: you know. pretty much everything.
scene direction: buffy sarcastic
buffy: yeah. i'm doin' a great job.
scene direction: dawn firmly
dawn: you are.
scene direction: buffy scoffs
buffy: i'm the slayer. the chosen one. all mythic and defender-y. evil nasties are supposed to flee from me. not the other way around.
dawn: you're not fleeing. you're ... moving at a brisk pace.
buffy: quaintly referred to in some cultures as the big scaredy runaway.
scene direction: dawn comes fully inside, closes the door and walks over to sit beside buffy.
dawn: it's the most amazing thing anyone's ever done for me.
scene direction: buffy looks over at her with a pained expression, then away.
scene direction: buffy voice breaking
buffy: it just keeps coming. glory ... riley ... tara ... mom.
scene direction: dawn pause
dawn: i know. but there's a bright side.
buffy: there is?
dawn: at least things can't get any crazier. right?
scene direction: suddenly they both jump as an arrow shoots through the window and lands in the wall a little ways from buffy's head. dawn stares at it in horror. buffy gives her an almost amused look.
buffy: you know this is your fault for saying that.
scene direction: dawn doesn't seem to see the humor.
scene direction: buffy pulls down a corner of the venetian blinds to peek outside.
knight: come on now!
scene direction: we see a bunch of knights riding horses up alongside the winnebago, swinging their weapons.
knight: bring up the rear! let's go!
scene direction: buffy and dawn stare for a moment, then buffy turns away from the window and sighs.
scene direction: the rv drives on. the knights are about a hundred feet back but closing fast.
scene direction: buffy and dawn rush into the main cabin.
buffy: giles!
giles: i see them.
spike: see who?
scene direction: shot of the side mirror with the knights reflected in it.
scene direction: several knights ride up alongside the rv on either side. one has a crossbow and shoots another arrow into the side.
scene direction: spike jumps aside as the arrow appears in the wall beside him.
xander: arrows!
spike: bloody hell!
xander: they're throwing arrows!
scene direction: tara peeks out the window.
scene direction: the knights continue to ride up alongside the vehicle. they shoot more arrows.
buffy: dawn, get down under the table.
scene direction: buffy pushes dawn to the floor. anya also ducks under the table.
scene direction: tara peeking out
tara: horsies!
scene direction: the knights shoot more arrows. willow pulls tara away just as an arrow appears in the wall beside her.
willow: tara!
scene direction: willow and tara duck under the table. arrows appear in the wall beside giles.
giles: weapons?
scene direction: buffy tosses a bag to spike.
spike: hello! you're driving one!
willow: don't hit the horsies!
buffy: oh, we won't!
scene direction: buffy moves up next to giles.
buffy: aim for the horsies.
scene direction: shot of the horsemen reflected in giles' mirror.
scene direction: giles turns the wheel trying to hit them, but the horses move out of the way. giles swings the wheel again to get back on the road. shot of spike looking grim.
scene direction: long shot of the rv being pursued by the horsemen.
scene direction: cut closer as one of the men rides up alongside the back of the rv, grabs onto the ladder on its side and climbs on, letting his horse gallop away. he climbs up onto the roof.
scene direction: cut inside. xander sits by the table.
xander: did we shake 'em?
scene direction: the knight's sword stabs through the ceiling inches from xander's head, making him jump. giles and buffy look up.
scene direction: shot of the knight pulling his sword free.
scene direction: buffy moves back toward the rear. spike continues looking in the bag of weapons.
scene direction: the knight stabs down again.
buffy: stay low!
scene direction: the knight stabs again.
buffy: watch out for the- the sword point comes in directly at buffy's head. spike reaches up with both hands and grabs the sword, stops it from stabbing buffy in the head. she ducks.
scene direction: the knight tries to pull his sword free but can't. spike continues holding onto it with both hands.
spike: now might be a good time for something heroic.
scene direction: the knight continues trying to free his sword.
scene direction: buffy looks around.
buffy: xander! hatch!
scene direction: buffy climbs up on the table and opens the hatch in the roof. xander boosts her up and through it. she emerges behind the knight. we see the other horsemen still riding alongside.
scene direction: the knight sees buffy, pulls his sword free. we hear spike yelling in pain.
scene direction: the knight thrusts at buffy. she ducks, backs away from his second swing, wheels and kicks his legs out from under him. he goes down and buffy gets on top of him, blocks another swing, punches him. he drops the sword.
scene change: cut to inside. spike sits at the table beside dawn. his hands are bloody and he has some rags. he tries to use his teeth to rip them up.
scene change: cut to above. buffy punches the knight in the face a few times, then he blocks and punches her. they grapple, he kicks her in the head and she falls over the side, holding onto the railing along the top of the rv. she hangs there as a knight rides alongside holding a mace.
scene change: cut to inside. spike holds his bloody hands on the table as dawn rips up the rags. tara and willow emerge from under the table. giles continues driving. they all look up as we hear the sounds of fighting on the roof.
scene change: cut to outside. the knight crouches above buffy to hit her, but she kicks upward and he falls back. buffy vaults back up onto the roof. they both stand and face off.
scene direction: another knight rides alongside and throws a grappling hook onto the railing. he begins climbing up the side.
scene direction: buffy punches the first knight, whirls around and kicks him. he falls off the side with a scream.
scene direction: the second knight reaches the roof as another grappling hook catches on the railing.
scene change: cut to inside. dawn ties the rags around spike's hands.
dawn: keep the pressure on.
spike: i always do, sweet bit.
scene direction: a knight busts through the window and they both shriek and jump aside. the knight tries to grab dawn. spike yells in pain from the sunlight.
scene direction: giles looks back. shot from outside of the side of the van with the knight hanging on it, his upper half inside the window. sounds of spike and dawn and the knight yelling.
scene direction: cut back inside. tara and willow cower as anya appears and begins hitting the knight in the head with her frying pan. he loses his grip and falls to the ground below.
anya: not a piano, but hey.
scene direction: giles glances back, continues driving.
scene change: cut to the roof. two soldiers now face buffy, one with an axe, the other with a mace. she punches the one with the axe, kicks the other one, kicks the first one, ducks to take a mace blow on her back, punches the mace-wielder, does a back-flip and kicks them both in the faces.
scene change: cut to inside. willow and anya sit on either side of tara trying to comfort her as she looks anxious.
scene change: cut to above. buffy picks up the first knight's sword from where he dropped it, twirls it around. the mace chain wraps around the sword blade and she uses it to pull the knight closer. behind him the knight with the axe tries to attack but buffy kicks him away. she spins the mace-holder around, knees him in the stomach and throws him off the side of the rv, taking the mace and the sword with him.
scene direction: buffy ducks an axe swing, kicks the knight in the chest, grabs his axe hand and hits him with her other hand. he gets hold of her from behind as another knight climbs up the ladder. buffy hits the axe hand. the knight yells and lets go of the axe, which buffy grabs. she swings it at him and he ducks, then she kicks him and he falls over the side.
scene direction: buffy throws the axe and it slams into the chest of the knight on the ladder. he screams and falls backward off the rv.
scene change: cut to inside. it seems quiet. spike is on the floor with dawn crouching over him, willow and anya and tara on the other side of the table, all listening. giles peers out at his mirror.
scene direction: shot of the back end of the rv with the road retreating away, clear of all knights.
scene direction: giles lets out a sigh of relief. xander does the same although he still looks queasy. giles glances back.
giles: everyone all right?
scene direction: everyone seems to be all right.
scene direction: giles smiles slightly as he turns back to the road.
scene direction: only to see another knight on horseback coming straight at him, holding a spear.
scene direction: giles looks horrified and tries to twist the wheel.
scene direction: the knight throws the spear. it flies through the window and into giles' side, impaling him. he gasps and is thrown forward onto the steering wheel. everyone shrieks and gasps as the rv jostles, out of control.
scene direction: shot of buffy still on the roof, struggling to keep her balance. she leaps off the roof, lands on the ground and rolls.
scene direction: she sits up in time to see the rv go careening off the road, fall over onto its side, and come to a stop in a huge cloud of dust.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the winnebago still lying on its side with dust drifting slowly around it. it's on a dirt road in the desert, just a few trees and telephone poles on either side. in the background we can see the gang walking along. spike has a blanket covering his head. buffy and xander support giles with his arms over their shoulders.
xander voiceover: we gotta find shelter.
spike voiceover: yeah, right bloody quick. i'm burning up out here.
scene change: cut to overhead shot of an abandoned gas station with a rusting old truck in front of it. the gang walks up to the building.
scene change: cut to the entrance. spike goes first, kicking the door open and hurrying inside. the others follow.
buffy: careful.
scene direction: dawn coughs from the dust, watches with concern as the others bring giles in. anya closes the door behind them. inside, it looks like an empty room with little or no furniture. the windows are boarded up but incompletely, so stripes of light enter the room. there's a long sort of counter halfway in.
buffy: spike.
scene direction: spike and xander help buffy bring giles over to the counter. giles groans in pain. the lower left side of his stomach is covered in blood.
xander: careful. up.
buffy: okay, will?
willow: i'm on it.
scene direction: giles groans more as xander and spike lift him onto the counter. spike also groans in pain from his wounded hands.
willow: oh, careful!
scene direction: spike finishes helping giles onto the counter and hurries out of the sunlight. willow and tara come up next to giles. willow puts a bag under giles's head. he is sweaty and panting.
scene direction: buffy goes over to dawn.
buffy: are you sure you're okay?
dawn: yeah. b-but spike's hurt.
scene direction: buffy turns to spike, grabs his wrist to look at his injured hands.
spike: ow! easy with the delicates.
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: they'll heal.
scene direction: xander and anya exchange a look as they put down their stuff.
spike: florence bloody nightingale to the rescue.
scene direction: buffy goes to the window and looks through the boards. shot of the view outside -no one in sight.
anya: um, you have another plan, right?
scene direction: anya buffy turns from the window to look at her
anya: one that doesn't involve pointy knives and a winnebago?
buffy: we-we-we'll rest here for a minute, but then we have to keep moving.
xander: where?
scene direction: buffy desperately
buffy: i don't know!
scene direction: buffy puts her hands to her face
buffy: we just, we, we, we can't, can't stay here. i-it's too close to the wreck, we're too easy to find.
willow: buffy!
scene direction: buffy runs over to where willow is standing over giles.
buffy: will, how is he?
scene direction: willow has her hands on giles's wound. shot of giles's face, still sweaty with blood coming out of his mouth.
buffy: will?
willow: i-i think i slowed the bleeding, but...
scene direction: giles continues breathing shallowly, his eyes closed.
buffy: okay. okay, just-just give me a minute.
scene direction: buffy turns away trying to think.
scene direction: suddenly a flaming arrow shoots through a boarded-up window and embeds in the wall opposite. everyone turns.
buffy: dawn, get down!
scene direction: another fiery arrow breaks through some glass that's left in a window.
scene direction: xander pulls the first arrow out of the window and stomps out the fire on the ground.
scene direction: buffy pushes dawn behind the counter. dawn sits on the floor, protected on three sides.
scene direction: more fiery arrows come shooting through the windows.
scene direction: willow pushes a whimpering tara down to a crouch.
scene direction: xander peeks out the hole made by one arrow.
scene direction: shot of the outside. a bunch of knights are setting up, mostly hiding behind the abandoned truck and gas pumps with their bows and arrows. there are a few garbage barrels with fires lit in them.
scene direction: xander os
xander: we got company.
scene direction: more arrows shoot through the windows. xander turns back inside.
xander: and they brought a crusade.
scene change: cut to outside. the knights continue firing their arrows. the general rides up on horseback.
scene change: cut to inside. everyone's crouching down. buffy runs toward the wall.
buffy: willow!
scene direction: we see willow crouching beside the counter, with one hand stretched up to keep pressure on giles's wound while her other hand is flipping the pages of a magic book. tara huddles next to her whimpering and covering her head.
willow: i'm working on it!
scene direction: buffy and spike together shove a large coffee machine in front of the door and tip it over on its side.
scene change: cut to outside. the general sits on his horse watching the action.
knights: go! go! go! let's move! come on, move it!
scene direction: we see multiple knights attacking the boarded-up windows of the building with various weapons, trying to break in.
scene change: cut to inside. a knight's axe breaks through the wall right next to dawn's head. she screams.
scene direction: the knight continues hacking and then reaches an arm in. dawn screams again.
dawn: buffy!
scene direction: buffy runs over to help, but a knight comes through the door beside the counter. he punches buffy and she falls aside.
scene direction: xander and anya hide behind something (looks like an old heater).
scene direction: spike lunges at the knight, punches him, then screams in pain and clutches his head. the knight lifts his weapon to strike spike but buffy intervenes, kicks him and then punches him. he punches her back.
scene direction: the boards on the windows rattle as more knights pound on them and the glass shatters. spike covers his head as glass falls on him.
scene direction: buffy kicks the knight again and he stumbles back, turns and thrusts his weapon at her but she blocks it, kicks him, then twists around and flips him over her shoulder. he falls unconscious on the floor.
scene direction: xander runs out from his hiding place and grabs the unconscious knight, begins dragging him away.
scene direction: the other knights continue beating on the walls and windows, knocking out the glass with their weapons.
knight: it's clear!
scene direction: knight ?
scene direction: dawn stands up cautiously from behind the counter and is confronted by the bleeding giles. she looks at his wound in dismay.
scene direction: the general enters. buffy turns to look at him. he points his sword.
gregor: the key.
scene direction: dawn looks frightened.
scene direction: buffy picks up the knight's weapon from the ground and throws it at gregor, hitting him in the hand, making him drop his sword. he lunges at buffy and she hits him, making him reel aside into a pillar. he hits it face-first and falls down unconscious.
willow: enemies, fly and fall.
scene direction: we see willow sitting on the floor beside the counter, with her legs crossed holding the book. her eyes are all black again as they were in "tough love".
willow: circling arms, raise a wall.
scene direction: she raises her arms and a circle of light emits from them, expanding outward.
scene change: cut to outside. the sphere comes through the walls and all the knights are forced backward, flying through the air. they land several feet away from the building as the bubble holds.
scene direction: dante hits the barrier with his sword. it shimmers but he can't get through.
scene direction: dante angry growl
dante: they have the general. clerics!
scene direction: two elderly men in long black robes come forward. they walk up to the barrier and hold up their hands to it. one begins to chant while the other turns back to dante.
cleric: energy barrier. a most powerful one.
dante: can it be breached?
cleric: the witch's magic pales to the might of our god. the infidels' wall ... shall tumble before us.
scene change: cut to inside. willow and tara get to their feet as buffy comes to check giles's wound.
buffy: will? how long will it hold?
scene direction: willow uncertain
willow: half a day maybe.
scene direction: buffy and dawn watch as willow goes to the window and peeks out.
scene direction: shot of the view through the window. we can see the two clerics chanting while the knights wait behind them.
willow: or till heckle and jeckle punch a hole through it.
scene direction: buffy and dawn look nervous.
scene direction: spike walks forward, looking down at the ground.
spike: so. what's the story with these role-playing rejects?
scene direction: shot of gregor lying unconscious on the floor.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: let's find out.
scene change: cut to gregor tied to a pillar in a rear room of the building. buffy stands in front of him with her arms folded.
scene direction: shot of dawn by the door watching.
scene direction: shot of spike off to the side.
spike: you sure scarface here can habla the english?
buffy: he understands me.
scene direction: buffy to gregor
buffy: don't you?
gregor: you were warned we would return, slayer.
buffy: took you long enough. what are you supposed to be, some kind of chief?
scene direction: gregor sneers
gregor: general.
buffy: general.
scene direction: buffy takes a step forward
buffy: in charge of what, getting captured?
gregor: you do not frighten me, child.
scene direction: gregor looks at dawn
gregor: the instrument of chaos must be destroyed.
scene direction: buffy steps forward to him and puts her hands firmly on either side of his face.
scene direction: buffy angrily
buffy: look at her that way again, and she will be the last thing you ever see.
scene direction: she lets go and steps back.
gregor: as i've been told, you protect the key of the beast.
scene direction: shot of xander watching.
buffy: it's not that simple.
gregor: yes. the key has been transformed, given ... breath, life. yet, this makes no difference. the key is the link. the link must be severed.
scene direction: gregor shot of dawn looking scared
gregor: such is the will of god.
scene direction: buffy upset
buffy: she doesn't remember anything about being this key you're all looking for. the only thing that she remembers is growing up with a mother, and a sister that love her. what kind of god would demand her life for something that she has no control over?
scene direction: shot of gregor looking unmoved.
buffy: we are not your enemy.
scene direction: buffy shot of spike watching
buffy: tell your men to stand down.
scene direction: gregor looks at dawn
gregor: no.
buffy: it is not her fault! she's human now!
scene direction: buffy shot of dawn
gregor: the key is too dangerous ... to be allowed to exist. no matter what form it has been pressed into.
buffy: i will not let anyone tell me- buffy breaks off as we hear a wailing from the next room and willow saying "shh, shh." xander turns to look through the door.
scene direction: buffy, dawn, spike, and xander go into the other room where anya is watching helplessly as willow tries to calm tara.
willow: shh, shh, shh.
buffy: what happened?
anya: i-i don't know, she just went nuts.
scene direction: tara whimpers frantically and struggles to get free from willow who is holding her still. tara finally breaks free.
tara: time! time, time!
scene direction: she runs over to the boarded-up windows and claws at them. willow runs after her and tries to pull her away. tara breaks free and runs to another part of the wall, whimpering in agitation. the others watch helplessly.
scene direction: willow grabs tara around the torso, pinning her arms to her sides as tara continues whimpering.
willow: tara!
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: we have to do something!
scene direction: willow shot of dawn and spike watching with concern
willow: she, she can't stay this way. buffy!
tara: time... time... time...
scene change: cut to the hospital psych ward. all the patients are muttering "time, time" as well, and struggling against their bonds. one of them is the man who accosted dawn on the street in "the real me".
patients: time. time.
scene direction: the nurse comes in.
nurse: no, it's not time for your meds, just lie back- the guy from "the real me" rips free of his restraints and the nurse rushes over to try to force him back into bed.
scene direction: nurse yelling over her shoulder
nurse: doctor! doctor mccarthy!
scene direction: another patient hits her over the head and she falls down unconscious. the other patients begin to break free and get up out of bed. they all walk off toward the door, muttering "time" over and over again.
scene change: cut to outside the gas station. orlando is among the knights in the encampment. he walks forward, staring at the building.
orlando: it's time. it's time.
dante: no, no, shh. there's nothing to fear, my brother.
scene direction: orlando looks unhappy. behind dante we can see the clerics still standing by the barrier chanting.
dante: the beast may have taken your mind, but i swear to you, she will never know the taste of your heart.
scene direction: dante pulls orlando sharply toward him. orlando groans and grabs dante's shoulders but then slumps to the ground. dante looks sadly down at him. we see a bloody dagger in his hand.
dante: clerics!
scene direction: dante the clerics turn
dante: i want the witch's barrier down. now!
scene direction: the clerics exchange a look, return to their chanting.
scene change: cut to closeup of buffy's face.
buffy: i'm sorry.
scene direction: we see she's standing beside giles, holding his hand with both of hers. giles is conscious.
giles: for what?
buffy: we should have stayed. if we had, none of this would have happened.
giles: don't.
scene direction: giles painfully
giles: what you did ... w-was necessary ... what i've always admired.
scene direction: buffy small smile
buffy: running away?
giles: being able to place ... your heart ... above all else.
scene direction: he breathes shakily while buffy watches with concern.
giles: i'm so proud of you. you've come so far. you're everything a watcher ... everything i could have hoped for.
scene direction: buffy has tears in her eyes. she sniffles.
scene direction: giles makes a pained face, closes his eyes. buffy looks anxiously at their entwined hands, then at giles's stomach. he continues breathing shallowly, seems to have fallen asleep. buffy gently removes his hand from hers.
scene direction: in the background we see willow standing over a sleeping or resting tara, stroking her hair.
scene direction: buffy turns away from giles with a resolute expression.
buffy: willow.
scene direction: willow looks up at her.
buffy: open a door.
scene direction: willow looks uncertainly from buffy to the wall and back.
scene change: cut to outside. a hole appears in the barrier as buffy comes out of the building followed by xander. dante and a few other knights come forward. they stop at the edge of the barrier and dante holds up a hand to stop the knights.
dante: speak.
buffy: one of my friends was hurt when you attacked us.
dante: and ten of my men are dead. honorable men.
scene direction: dante draws his sword
dante: shall we balance the scale?
buffy: will you let someone come and help him or not?
dante: give quarter to an agent of the beast? what madness would move me to such action?
buffy: i'm done asking.
scene direction: buffy starts forward but xander intervenes, stopping her, as the knights were preparing for buffy's attack.
xander: whoa, whoa, hey! uh ... this is war, isn't it? and if there's one thing i've learned from sergeant rock, it is in war ... there are rules.
scene direction: dante looks stern.
xander: or at least there should be, if you're as honorable as you think you are.
scene direction: xander buffy looks to see if dante is convinced
xander: plus, we do have your general forehead guy.
scene direction: dante considers this.
scene change: cut to willow, spike, and buffy standing beside a pay phone in the building. the phone is dark.
willow: discharge and bring life.
scene direction: the pay phone sizzles and suddenly lights up. buffy picks up the receiver, turns and nods to willow, who looks relieved. buffy begins to dial.
scene direction: spike to willow
spike: handier than a swiss knife. look, the door to my crypt's got this nasty squeak, maybe you could...
scene direction: willow rolls her eyes, turns and walks away. pan to buffy on the phone.
buffy: hey, uh, i-it's buffy. i need to ask you a really big favor.
scene change: cut to exterior shot, night. a car drives up to the gas station where the army of knights stands around watching. ben is at the wheel. he stops the car and looks fearfully out the window at the knights, who all hold weapons and glare at him. ben takes a deep breath, picks up his black bag from the seat, and gets out of the car.
scene change: cut to inside. ben stands next to giles tending to his wound, wearing surgical gloves. buffy stands beside him with the others in the background.
ben: you, uh, forgot to mention the costume party outside.
buffy: sorry.
scene direction: buffy shot of willow sitting over a sleeping tara
buffy: i-i didn't know who else to call.
ben: no, it's okay. i mean, yeah, not ... how i pictured seeing you again, but, uh ... i'll take what i can get.
scene direction: shot of spike looking annoyed, rolling his eyes.
buffy: thank you ... for coming.
ben: my pleasure.
scene direction: ben looks past buffy. shot of dawn standing a few feet away, with xander in the background.
scene direction: ben continues looking at dawn.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on giles's face, asleep or unconscious. ben's hands enter the shot and put the discarded surgical gloves down next to giles. pan down to giles's stomach. the bloody sweater is pulled up revealing a bandage wrapped around his abdomen.
scene change: cut to a longer shot as ben pulls a blanket up over giles's stomach and packs away his stethoscope while buffy stands watching.
ben: all right, i think i got him stabilized, but there's a lot of damage. we need to get him out of here.
buffy: well, i think the guys with the pointy swords kinda have other ideas.
ben: don't they always.
scene direction: shot of spike in the background making a disgusted face, mimicking ben silently, then turning away.
buffy: look, i know this must seem extra "outer limits" to you.
ben: this? naah. i've seen things you wouldn't believe.
scene direction: shot of dawn watching with xander in the background.
scene direction: ben os
ben: you know, emergency room, full moon on a saturday night.
scene direction: xander goes into the other room and pulls the door shut behind him.
scene direction: cut back to buffy and ben.
buffy: look, if this gets too weird, just tell me. i'll understand.
ben: don't worry about me. i won't leave until i've worn out my welcome.
scene direction: he smiles. buffy smiles back, then looks with concern at giles.
scene direction: shot of giles breathing shallowly and unevenly. pan down to his blanket-covered stomach.
scene direction: shot of giles's hand lying beside his body. buffy's hand enters the shot and takes hold of giles's.
scene change: cut to spike's bloody, bandaged hands as he tries to light a cigarette. he fumbles with the lighter.
scene direction: we see that we're in the back room. it's dark. xander stands watching the tied-up general as the sound of spike trying to light his lighter continues.
scene direction: spike whispering
spike: ow.
scene direction: spike shakes his hand in pain and annoyance.
scene direction: xander walks over. spike gives him a wary look. xander takes the lighter. spike sighs.
spike: thanks.
scene direction: xander flicks the lighter on and holds it up to spike's cigarette, lighting it. then xander closes the lighter, puts it in his pocket as spike takes a drag.
xander: you know, those things'll kill you.
scene direction: spike gives him a look.
xander: oh. right.
scene direction: they stand side by side, leaning against the wall, as spike smokes.
xander: i mention today how much i don't like you?
scene direction: spike nods
spike: you mighta let it slip in ...
scene direction: spike looks at xander
spike: once or twice.
scene direction: xander smiles slightly, looks down at spike's hands.
xander: how're your feelers?
scene direction: spike sighs, looks around
spike: nothing compared to the little bits we're gonna get chopped into when the renaissance faire kicks the door in.
scene direction: spike points to the door; they both look over at it
spike: and here we bloody sit.
xander: it's not like we got much of a choice.
scene direction: spike gestures impatiently
spike: could make a break for it! use general armor-all as a shield
scene direction: spike shot of the general
spike: get to the doc's car, and- xander: great plan. and while all the hacking and slashing's going on, what are you gonna be doing, huh? throwing migraines at 'em?
spike: look, we stay here, we all die! at least this way, some of us might get- buffy:
scene direction: spike os
spike: no.
scene direction: the guys turn to see buffy standing in the doorway.
buffy: we're all gonna make it. i'm not losing anyone.
scene direction: spike sighs and shakes his head but says nothing.
buffy: check the supplies. see if anyone's hungry.
scene direction: xander looks at spike, then they both walk out. focus on buffy as they walk past her. she stares at the floor looking pensive.
scene direction: gregor chuckles and buffy closes her eyes briefly, then looks angrily at him.
gregor: dissention in the ranks. seldom a harbinger of glad tidings.
scene direction: buffy scowls, walks over to him and backhands him across the face.
buffy: shut up.
scene direction: gregor turns his head and spits blood. buffy turns her back to him.
gregor: poor frightened girl.
scene direction: gregor she turns back
gregor: you've no idea what you've gotten yourself into.
scene direction: buffy crosses arms over her chest
buffy: why don't you tell me?
gregor: would it make a difference?
scene direction: pause.
gregor: what do you know of the beast?
buffy: strong. fast. hellgod.
gregor: from a dimension of unspeakable torment.
buffy: a demon dimension. i know. she ruled with two other hellgods, right?
gregor: along with the beast they were a triumvirate of suffering and despair. ruling with equal vengeance. but the beast's power grew beyond even what they could conceive. as did her lust for pain and misery. they looked upon her, what she had become ... and trembled.
scene direction: buffy nervously
buffy: a god afraid?
gregor: such was her power. they feared she would attempt to seize their dimension for herself, and decided to strike first. a great battle erupted. in the end, they stood victorious over the beast ... barely. she was cast out. banished to this lower plane of existence, forced to live and eventually die trapped within the body of a mortal ... a newborn male, created as her prison. that is the beast's ... only weakness.
buffy: kill the man ... and the god dies.
gregor: unfortunately, the identity of the human vessel has never been discovered.
scene direction: buffy puzzled
buffy: i don't understand. now, i've seen glory. not a whole lot going on in the hairy chest department.
gregor: you have seen a glimpse of the true beast. her power was too great to be completely contained. she's found a way to escape her mortal prison ... for brief periods, before her energies are exhausted and she's forced back ... into her living cell of meat and bone.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: what about me?
scene direction: buffy turns to see dawn standing in the doorway.
dawn: what about the key?
buffy: dawn.
dawn: i want to know.
gregor: the key ... is almost as old as the beast itself. where it came from, how it was created ... the deepest of mysteries. all that is certain is that its power is absolute. countless generations of my people have sacrificed their lives in search of it, to destroy it before its wrath could be unleashed.
dawn: but the monks found it first.
gregor: yes, and hid it with their magicks.
buffy: why didn't they just destroy it? if the key is as dangerous as- gregor: because they were fools. they thought they could harness its power for the forces of light. they failed, and paid with their blood.
dawn: what do i do? what was i created for?
gregor: you were created ... to open the gates that separate dimensions. the beast will use your power ... to return home and seize control of the hell she was banished from.
scene direction: buffy laughs. the general looks at her in surprise.
buffy: that's it? that's glory's master plan ... to go home?
gregor: you misunderstand. once the key is activated, it won't just open the gates to the beast's dimension. it's going to open all the gates. the walls separating realities will crumble.
scene direction: gregor shot of buffy no longer smiling. shot of dawn
gregor: dimensions will bleed into each other. order will be overthrown and the universe will tumble into chaos ... all dark ... forever.
scene direction: buffy looks dismayed.
scene direction: gregor staring at dawn
gregor: that ... is what you were created for.
scene direction: dawn stares at him, then looks down.
scene change: cut to buffy emerging from the back room into another room.
buffy: dawn.
scene direction: we see dawn sitting on a table nearby. she has her back to buffy.
scene direction: dawn not turning
dawn: you think it's true ... what he said?
scene direction: buffy walks forward with a sigh, sits next to dawn. they look at each other.
buffy: i don't know.
dawn: destroyer of the universe.
scene direction: dawn pause
dawn: i guess cutting school doesn't seem so bad now, huh?
buffy: it's not you. you know that.
dawn: but it's in me ... isn't it? it's inside me.
scene direction: they look at each other for a moment, then dawn looks away.
dawn: what are we gonna do?
scene direction: buffy frowns slightly, then puts her arms around dawn's shoulders and pulls dawn close, resting dawn's head on her cheek.
buffy: i won't let anything happen to you. i promise.
scene direction: they sit there quietly. buffy sighs.
scene change: cut to the back room. willow is trying to feed tara while gregor, still tied up, watches.
scene direction: tara upset
tara: wriggling!
willow: come on, tara, you have to eat something.
scene direction: tara turns her head aside and whimpers. anya walks up.
anya: want me to try?
willow: i don't know. i'm gettin' used to pickin' fruit out of my hair.
scene direction: pan over to the general. nearby we see ben standing over a small sink doing something with gauze.
scene direction: gregor whispers
gregor: you!
scene direction: ben stops what he's doing but doesn't look at gregor.
gregor: you are not a part of this, are you?
scene direction: ben still not looking at him
ben: just a friend of the family.
gregor: would you die for them?
scene direction: ben turns to look at him.
gregor: because that is what your future holds if you align yourself with the slayer and her misguided people.
scene direction: ben walks a little closer, angrily
ben: it's my life, and i'll do what i please with it.
gregor: it's not just your life. unimaginable legions will perish, including everyone here.
scene direction: gregor whispers
gregor: you can stop this. you can save all their lives by ending one. the little girl. the key. destroy it, and the will of the beast will be broken, she will fade, a distant memory ...
scene direction: gregor shot of ben listening, looking uncertain
gregor: and all of this madness will end.
scene direction: ben just glares at him.
scene change: cut to dawn standing over giles, watching him as he continues to sleep, breathing raggedly. ben walks up and dawn gasps in surprise.
ben: sorry.
scene direction: ben puts his hand on giles's wrist and takes his pulse.
dawn: is ... is he gonna be okay?
scene direction: dawn shot of xander watching
ben: he was hurt pretty bad, dawn.
scene direction: ben releases giles's wrist
dawn: it's because of me. it's all my fault.
ben: no it isn't.
scene direction: ben goes past dawn to get his bag.
dawn: you don't know what's happening.
ben: i don't have to.
scene direction: ben takes a syringe from the bag, begins filling it
ben: i just know that sometimes terrible things happen to good people. it shouldn't, but ... it does.
scene direction: he pulls down the plunger, filling the syringe with liquid. dawn continues watching giles. ben flicks the needle to make sure it's flowing.
ben: it's nobody's fault.
scene direction: he turns back, holding the needle up.
scene direction: shot of dawn with her back to ben.
scene direction: ben moves slowly closer to her.
ben: it's just the way life is.
scene direction: he walks past dawn and puts the needle to giles's arm. dawn sees it and gasps.
scene direction: shot of the needle injecting into giles. dawn frowns in distaste.
dawn: is that gonna help?
scene direction: ben doesn't answer. he turns away.
dawn: ben?
scene direction: the syringe falls to the ground.
scene direction: ben has his back to dawn, puts a hand shakily to his forehead. dawn stares at him looking very scared.
scene change: cut to ben running into the main room.
ben: you have to let me out.
scene direction: dawn follows him in. the others begin to gather.
dawn: ben?
ben: you don't understand, i gotta get out, open a door now!
scene direction: buffy and spike run up next to dawn.
buffy: what happened?
dawn: i-i don't know, he just freaked out.
scene direction: ben frantically
ben: let me out!
buffy: okay, w-will, open a door.
scene direction: willow turns away from tara to see what's going on.
ben: no! ha!
scene direction: ben puts his hands to his head and suddenly morphs into glory, who turns the movement into a stretch. she slowly brings her arms down and looks around.
scene direction: buffy and dawn stare in horror. buffy pushes dawn behind her.
scene direction: glory looks around in surprise.
scene direction: shot of willow looking scared, reaching for tara.
scene direction: glory begins to smile.
scene direction: shot of xander and anya watching.
glory: well, what do you know. little ben finally did something right.
gregor: the beast.
glory: hey, it's gregor.
scene direction: she grabs a hubcap that's hanging nearby and throws it like a frisbee. it flies into the general's chest. everyone stares. gregor falls forward against his bonds, dead.
glory: now it's not.
scene direction: spike rushes at glory with a yell, xander right behind him. glory hits spike and he crashes backward into xander. they both fall against the wall.
scene direction: tara looks upset as willow lowers her head and closes her eyes.
scene direction: buffy rushes at glory as the guys try to get up. glory hits buffy and she crashes into willow, both of them hitting the wall and then falling to the floor.
scene direction: glory turns to look at dawn, gives a little laugh. dawn looks frightened.
scene direction: glory runs forward and grabs dawn. anya grabs dawn from the other side but glory pulls her free and begins running out.
dawn: buffy!
scene direction: buffy painfully tries to get up as glory, dragging dawn by the hand, crashes out the door.
scene change: cut to outside. glory and dawn burst out, run forward and into the barrier, which stops them. we can hear the knights shouting.
glory: yeah, right!
scene direction: glory swings her free arm at the barrier and breaks a hole in it. she runs through it, pulling dawn with her. we hear the knights yelling battle cries.
scene direction: the hole begins to close as buffy emerges from the building. she runs into the barrier just as it finishes closing. she can't get past it.
buffy: dawn!
scene direction: sound of knights yelling and swords clashing. buffy turns and runs back inside, moving with a slight limp.
scene change: cut to inside. buffy enters.
buffy: willow!
scene direction: willow lifts her head. her eyes are black again.
buffy: get it down, now!
willow: hear, hear my plea.
scene direction: buffy runs back out again.
willow: circling arm protecting me.
scene change: cut to outside. buffy comes running out as the barrier disappears. buffy limps forward and looks around.
scene direction: all the knights are lying dead on the ground.
scene direction: buffy walks forward slowly, looking around at the corpses in horror.
scene direction: spike, xander, willow, tara, and anya burst out, slow down when they see the scene.
willow: we have to-
scene direction: willow stops
scene direction: buffy walks slowly forward, looking around.
scene direction: pan across the men lying dead. we see dante among them, still alive.
dante: the beast.
scene direction: spike and xander staring around.
scene direction: tara whimpers and hides her face in willow's shoulder.
scene direction: spike points
spike: the car. get the keys.
scene direction: spike and xander run off. buffy continues staring.
scene direction: willow, tara, and anya start forward.
willow: buffy! buffy, we have to find dawn. we, we can't let glory- buffy abruptly sits down on the ground.
willow: buffy? buffy!
scene direction: tears run down buffy's face. willow and tara walk over to her.
willow: buffy, you have to get up! we need you!
scene direction: buffy just sits, the tears flowing, staring in front of her.
scene direction: willow os
willow: buffy, please!
scene direction: willow echoing
willow: buffy...
scene direction: blackout.
executive producer: joss whedon 