scene direction: open on the magic shop, day. it's halloween and the shop is filled with customers, including many laughing children. pan across a large banner reading "halloween bone-anza" with the letters spelled out in paper bones (the o in "bone" is a paper skull).
scene direction: anya moves through the store on roller-skates. she wears very short candy-striped shorts, a red blouse, and farrah fawcett hair.
scene direction: anya to customer
anya: um, everything on this table's half off. including the table.
scene direction: she skates on.
scene direction: anya to second customer
anya: buy one eyeball, get the second one free!
scene direction: in the background we see giles working the cash register, wearing a wizard robe. in foreground is xander, dressed as a pirate, talking to some children. he holds a jar.
xander: arrr! careful, me mateys! these be fireflies spat from a volcano off the coast of katmandu. arr!
scene direction: little boy dressed as a fireman
little boy: you're not a real pirate! real pirates live on boats and don't look stupid!
scene direction: xander fake laugh
xander: oh, a salty swabbie! maybe you be fishin' for the taste ... of me hook!
scene direction: he shakes his hook-hand in the boy's face. the boy is unimpressed.
scene direction: giles calls
giles: uh, hello, ahab, a little help please?
xander: arr, and help ye shall have, arr!
scene direction: xander gives the boy a menacing look and goes off, scratching his neck with the hook.
scene direction: dawn walks across the store, dressed normally. she puts something down on the table next to anya.
dawn: so what are you supposed to be?
anya: an angel.
dawn: oh. shouldn't you have wings?
anya: oh no, this is a special kind of angel called a charlie. we don't have wings, we just skate around with perfect hair fighting crime. where's your costume?
scene direction: anya skates away
scene direction: dawn follows
dawn: like i'm six years old? halloween's so lame.
anya: but you get to dress up, and play games! xander's gonna teach me a new one after work called shiver me timbers. ever play?
scene direction: tara appears just in time to hear this and intervene.
tara: uh, dawn, willow could use some help in magical texts.
scene direction: dawn grins
dawn: i'm all over it.
scene direction: dawn walks away
scene direction: anya to tara
anya: how 'bout you, ever play shiver me timbers?
tara: i'm not really much for the timber.
scene change: cut to willow on the other side of the room holding up a book on witchcraft.
scene direction: willow angrily
willow: i'm just saying you might wanna rethink the stereotype before someone turns *you* into a toad.
scene direction: we see that she's talking to a woman in traditional halloween witch costume (hooked nose, pointy black hat, warts, etc.). the woman looks annoyed, grabs the book and walks away.
willow: and while you're at it, why don't you try removing that broomstick from your-
scene direction: dawn appears behind the witch, approaching willow.
scene direction: willow catches herself
willow: dawn!
dawn: hey. don't stop the invective on account of me.
willow: if i see one more idiot that thinks witches are all hairy moles and rotted teeth-
witchy-poo: excuse me, do you have any candy corn?
scene direction: willow and dawn look down to see a tiny little girl dressed in a similar witch costume.
willow: oh, look at you!
scene direction: willow kneels by the girl
willow: you are just the cutest thing!
dawn: i-i thought you said-
willow: i know, but look, with the hat, and the, the wart!
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: oh! let's go fill your tummy up with sugary niblets, okay?
scene direction: willow leads the cute little witch away. dawn watches with a smile.
scene direction: then dawn looks down at a nearby display table. shot of a large gold coin with a picture of a dragon on it.
scene direction: dawn looks around furtively, picks up the coin and slips it in her pocket.
scene direction: anya os
anya: buffy!
scene direction: dawn tries to look casual, walks off.
scene change: cut to anya skating over to buffy. buffy carries a large cardboard box.
anya: we're running low on mandrake root. check the basement.
scene direction: anya skates off
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: don't blame me if we have this conversation over and over...
scene direction: buffy walks off
scene change: cut to the basement. buffy comes down the stairs still holding the box.
buffy: ...and over ... and over, and over.
scene direction: she reaches the bottom of the stairs and turns to go around them, just as spike emerges from underneath them.
buffy: oh!
scene direction: both jump in surprise, then sigh.
buffy: bell. neck. look into it.
spike: come with a nice leather collar, does it?
buffy: what are you doing lurking down here?
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: came through the tunnels.
scene direction: spike holds up a handful of vines
spike: running low on burba weed. stir it in with the blood. makes it all hot 'n spicy.
scene direction: buffy makes a very "ew" face, turns away to put the box down.
spike: what? i was gonna pay for it.
scene direction: buffy gives him a skeptical look as she comes back toward him.
spike: i mean, no. i was gonna nick it, 'cause that's what i do.
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: i go where i please and i take what i want, and what's your excuse anyway?
scene direction: spike nods toward upstairs
spike: i thought you'd had it to the brim with customer disservice.
buffy: one-time deal to help out. and i mean straight time. no loop-de-loop mummy hand repeat-o-vision.
scene direction: spike nods understanding. buffy looks around, looks embarrassed.
buffy: where's the mandrake root?
scene direction: spike looks around, moves toward a shelf covered with jars.
spike: um ... here.
scene direction: spike takes down a jar
spike: only three to a jar.
scene direction: spike gives her the jar
spike: tend to ... go a bit wonky if you cram them too close.
buffy: thanks.
spike: feel like a bit of the rough and tumble?
scene direction: buffy shocked
buffy: what?
spike: me ... you...
scene direction: she stares at him, still shocked.
spike: patrolling? hello?
buffy: oh. uh ... i ... should stay. maybe tomorrow.
scene direction: it's a little awkward. they both turn away, buffy toward the stairs and spike toward the direction he came from.
spike: it's not like i don't already have plans. great pumpkin's on in twenty.
scene direction: he turns and leaves. buffy shakes her head.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: so much easier to talk to when he wanted to kill me.
scene direction: she heads up the stairs.
scene change: cut to above. buffy emerges from the basement, still carrying the jar of mandrake root. she closes the door, takes a few steps forward and is intercepted by anya, who takes the jar.
anya: ooh! go help giles.
scene direction: anya skates away
scene direction: buffy turns and goes through the swing-door that separates the area behind the cash register from the rest of the store. giles is busily ringing up a customer at the cash register. there's a long line of other customers waiting.
buffy: what happened to xander?
giles: he kept poking me with his hook.
scene direction: giles buffy picks up an item from the counter
giles: i sent him over to charmed objects. with any luck he'll poke the wrong one and end up in an alternative dimension inhabited by a 50-foot giles that squishes annoying teeny pirates.
scene direction: while speaking the previous line giles rings up a sale and packs several items into a bag. now he takes the item buffy is holding, puts it in the bag and gives it to a customer.
giles: we've got a ton of bagging to do here.
buffy: actually, spike had a really good idea. you know, maybe i should
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: patrol.
giles: buffy, you've been patrolling every night this week.
scene direction: giles takes an item from a customer, rings it up
giles: besides, it's halloween, it's the one time of the year that supernatural threats give it a well-deserved rest. as should you.
buffy: yeah, what about costumes that take over your personality? or, wee little irish fear-demon-y thingies?
giles: yes, well, if anything calamitous should happen, history suggests it'll happen to one of us.
scene direction: giles hands a customer some change
buffy: right, exactly, so i should patrol to avoid any of that-
scene direction: buffy giles shoves the item in her hand
buffy: and i'm bagging.
scene change: cut to the street, day. children in costume run around, shouting.
scene direction: an elderly man in a brown suit and hat walks down the street, carrying a large paper bag, humming "pop goes the weasel." he walks up the stairs to a house.
scene change: cut to inside. the old man enters, still humming. he puts his hat on a hook and walks through the house. we see toys everywhere on shelves and tables, many of them carved out of wood.
scene direction: the old man continues humming as he goes into the kitchen. a large pot is on the stove, steaming. he sniffs it briefly, puts the bag down on the counter.
scene direction: kaltenbach sings to the same tune
kaltenbach: da da da da da-da da da, happy halloween.
scene direction: he looks out the window at the street. shot of a bunch of kids on the sidewalk talking.
kaltenbach: ha ha! give you ... something ... special this year.
scene direction: he turns and opens a drawer, takes out a large knife. he tests the blade with his thumb while humming the final notes of the tune.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on exterior shot of the magic shop, night. a few people exit.
scene change: cut to inside. dawn stands at the door waving the last customers out.
dawn: come again!
scene direction: dawn weak laugh
scene direction: she closes the door and leans against it with a grimace.
dawn: uhh! in a zillion years.
scene direction: we see xander lying on his back on the floor.
xander: store go boom.
scene direction: xander waves his hook hand weakly
xander: arr.
scene direction: wider shot of the others sitting around looking very tired. giles and buffy sit on the steps beside xander; willow and tara in chairs nearby.
scene direction: we see anya behind the counter.
anya: that was the most incredible thing i have ever experienced.
scene direction: xander lifts his head to look over at her.
anya: except for that.
scene direction: dawn walks across the room to join anya behind the counter.
anya: what you all did for me tonight ... the astounding heaps of money you helped me-
scene direction: anya xander clears his throat
anya: ...us acquire. all i can say is, i hope we make as much tomorrow.
scene direction: buffy in dismay
buffy: tomorrow?
anya: oh, post-holiday clearance.
scene direction: anya smiles
anya: the cornerstone of retail.
scene direction: everyone groans. giles gets to his feet with a grimace.
giles: brooms all around, then.
willow: or i could whip up a jaunty self-cleaning incantation, it'll be like fantasia.
giles: we all know how splendidly that turned out for mickey.
scene direction: giles gives willow a broom and dustpan
willow: i think i'm a little more adept than a cartoon mouse.
tara: and you have more fingers, which is good, 'cause...
scene direction: tara shot of anya counting her money
tara: ...there's no need to wear those big white gloves to overcompensate.
scene direction: buffy to xander
buffy: you know, if you had a real peg leg, you wouldn't just have a lame costume, you'd actually be lame. which is completely different.
scene direction: xander isn't listening; he's staring at anya.
scene direction: anya and dawn are behind the counter, doing a little dance.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: you do this every night?
anya: every time i close out the cash register. the dance of capitalist superiority.
scene direction: anya continues dancing, and dawn copies her movement. xander continues watching.
scene direction: xander softly
xander: i'm gonna marry that girl.
buffy: what?! she's fifteen and my sister, so don't ev-
scene direction: buffy gets it
buffy: oh.
xander: hey, everybody.
scene direction: xander stands up
xander: can i, um ... uh ... there's something anya and i ... wanna tell you.
scene direction: he walks over to the counter. anya comes to his side, holding a stack of paper money.
scene direction: anya quietly
anya: now?
xander: now.
scene direction: xander puts his arm around anya's shoulders, turns to face the rest of the gang.
xander: we're getting married.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: oh my god.
tara: congratulations!
scene direction: buffy and giles walk closer.
scene direction: willow not smiling
willow: that ... that's ... wow.
xander: it's a big wow.
scene direction: anya to xander
anya: i ... i thought you were waiting for the right moment.
scene direction: xander gazes fondly at her.
xander: i did.
scene direction: they kiss. dawn watches intently.
scene direction: anya giggles as the kiss ends.
anya: here, have some money!
scene direction: anya tosses money at dawn, who catches some of it, smiling. anya and xander resume kissing.
scene direction: buffy quietly to giles
buffy: did you know about this?
giles: no. unless i blocked it from my memory,
scene direction: giles glancing at xander and anya
giles: much as i will xander's vigorous use of his tongue.
scene direction: giles removes his glasses and begins to clean them. buffy watches this with an expression of outrage.
scene direction: buffy shocked
buffy: is that why you're always cleaning your glasses? so you don't have to see what we're doing?
giles: tell no one.
scene direction: giles puts glasses on
scene direction: buffy looks back over at anya and xander. they are still kissing.
buffy: giles, this is...
scene direction: shot of dawn watching the kissing with a wistful smile. cut back to buffy and giles.
buffy: ...we have to do something.
scene change: cut to a close-up of anya's hand, wearing the engagement ring. another hand is holding hers.
anya: and he said he couldn't imagine the rest of his life without me, and then he gave me this!
scene direction: pull out to reveal xander standing beside her. it's dawn holding anya's hand to look at the ring. we're in the summers living room. music in the background.
xander: which i'll be paying for the rest of my life.
dawn: can i try it on?
scene direction: anya big smile
anya: oh, absolutely not.
scene direction: giles and buffy appear from the kitchen, carrying cups.
giles: where i come from, this sort of thing requires much in the way of libation.
scene direction: everyone takes a cup.
xander: god save the queen!
buffy: sorry we couldn't do the big fancy. you kinda caught us with our parties down.
anya: oh, that's okay. this is just the first premarital celebration. there'll be lots more. with gifts.
scene direction: tara and willow appear with bowls of snacks.
tara: sure, maybe we'll even have time to decorate for the next one.
willow: why wait?
scene direction: willow speaks a few words of japanese(?) and a shimmer goes through the room. when it passes, the room is decorated with paper lanterns and streamers.
scene direction: dawn laughs with pleasure. the others look around. tara looks unhappy.
anya: this is so much better than the way it usually looks. thank you.
scene direction: anya hugs willow. giles gives a disapproving look, which he shares with tara.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. willow pours snacks from a bag into a large bowl. tara sits by the island.
tara: the grocery store's still open, we ... could've bought decorations there.
willow: why bother? these are perfect. and extra biodegradable-y. in a couple of hours, poof!
tara: no, they're, they're great, it's just ... why use magic when you can do something naturally?
willow: well, you can fight monsters naturally, with sticks and stones. don't recommend it though.
scene direction: willow drinking from a cup
tara: it's different.
willow: how?
tara: becau-
scene direction: tara sighs
tara: because you're protecting people. keeping them from being hurt.
willow: which makes them happy. like pretty decorations made anya happy.
scene direction: tara sighs
tara: that's not the point, will.
willow: why are you being like this?
tara: this isn't about me!
willow: this is so about you. you're always coming down on me for, for doing magic that couldn't harm a fly. what's your problem?
tara: willow, i j-just wish that you would stop and think about what you're-
scene direction: tara stops as she sees willow looking toward the door. dawn is standing there.
scene direction: dawn nervous
dawn: sorry. just checkin' on the chips.
willow: it's okay. we're done.
scene direction: willow takes the bowl of chips and walks out. dawn gives tara an anxious look, then follows willow.
scene change: cut to the living room. buffy and xander are hugging.
buffy: you're getting married! you!
scene direction: xander hoarsely
xander: me. choking.
buffy: oh, sorry.
scene direction: buffy lets him go
buffy: i just, i can't believe it. seems like only yesterday you had to pay a girl to date you.
xander: like i'd ever pay.
scene direction: xander snickers nervously
xander: define 'date.'
scene direction: willow and dawn approach carrying the bowl of snacks.
buffy: i was only out of commission for three months.
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: how many other things have changed since i've been away?
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: ooh, i got a tattoo!
scene direction: buffy shocked
buffy: what?!
willow: which is why we told her no.
scene direction: dawn wheedling
dawn: just a little one?
buffy: over my dead body.
scene direction: buffy willow sits on sofa
buffy: the kind that doesn't come back.
scene direction: anya enters.
scene direction: dawn pouty
dawn: fine.
scene direction: dawn sees anya
dawn: congratulations.
scene direction: dawn hugs anya briefly.
dawn: you're very lucky. finding a guy like him.
xander: not as lucky as me.
scene direction: xander kisses anya on the cheek. buffy watches with a smile.
dawn: see you guys tomorrow?
scene direction: dawn starts to leave
buffy: whoa!
scene direction: buffy grabs dawn's arm
buffy: tomorrow?
dawn: yeah. i'm sleeping over at janice's, remember?
buffy: that's tonight?
dawn: no. it's on the other halloween.
scene direction: dawn giles enters with more snacks
dawn: come on, you said i could.
buffy: uh ...
scene direction: buffy glances at willow
buffy: well ... i know i did, it's just, you know, now with xander's party, i-
xander: ah, we're good. but you have to get us some extra gifts for our reception.
anya: yes please.
buffy: i-i don't know. giles?
giles: uh, it's really not up to me.
dawn: come on. it's four blocks away, i'll walk straight over. not like i'm gonna be roaming the streets.
scene direction: dawn cajoling
dawn: please?
scene change: cut to dawn walking down a residential street. it's very busy with parents and costumed kids walking around, sound of kids yelling and laughing.
scene direction: dawn pauses, looks around, grins slightly and moves to her left.
scene change: cut to dawn walking down a dark alley. the sound of children is gone; distant police sirens instead. dawn hears a banging noise and slows.
dawn: hello?
scene direction: she walks forward slowly, picking up a piece of wood and holding it like a club. we can vaguely see the shapes of two people through the slats of a large wooden box.
scene direction: dawn walks up to the box's opening and sees that it's two young people kissing.
guy: hey!
dawn: ooh!
girl: perv.
dawn: sorry. i thought-
scene direction: dawn backs away, bumping into someone behind her. she turns around with a gasp of fear, then smiles in relief as she sees the other girl.
janice: hey summers. did you get over the wall okay?
dawn: yeah. my sister thinks i'm staying at your house.
janice: ahh. the mominator thinks i'm staying at yours.
scene direction: janice laughs
janice: can't believe they fell for that one, like, own a tv.
scene direction: she and dawn both laugh.
dawn: so where're we meeting?
scene direction: janice proudly
janice: the park.
scene direction: janice fake spooky voice
janice: that's where all the monsters gather on halloween.
scene direction: the two girls smile, turn and walk away together.
scene change: cut to the park. a teenage boy (zack) is standing on a swing.
zack: woohoo!
scene direction: we see two other boys and two girls sitting on a nearby bench with a stereo blaring. one of the boys (justin) throws something at zack.
zack: to infinity and-
scene direction: zack the thrown object hits him
zack: ow!
scene direction: justin sarcastic
justin: oops.
janice: nice shot.
scene direction: janice and dawn walk up. zack jumps down from the swing. he and justin walk over to the girls.
zack: hey baby.
scene direction: zack hugs janice
janice: hey.
zack: what took you so long?
janice: ah, we stopped for crimes and misdemeanors. zack, this is my friend dawn i was telling you about.
scene direction: zack to dawn
zack: hel-loooo.
scene direction: zack leers at dawn. janice shoves him.
zack: ow.
scene direction: justin to dawn
justin: hey.
scene direction: justin sticks out his hand
justin: justin.
scene direction: dawn shakes his hand
dawn: i know. i've seen you around at a couple of parties.
justin: i've seen you too.
scene direction: dawn looks very pleased to hear this.
scene direction: the other boy and the two girls walk by.
boy: hey, we'll catch you guys later.
scene direction: they leave.
zack: alone at last.
janice: so! what do you guys wanna do?
scene direction: zack and justin exchange a suggestive look, then look at the girls. dawn smiles bashfully.
scene change: cut to a house with a cardboard witch decoration in front of it. an egg smashes against the witch.
scene direction: we see zack standing on the lawn having just thrown the egg. janice in background.
zack: yeah, three points! woo!
scene direction: we see dawn and justin nearby. justin is crouched by a car, letting the air out of its tires.
scene direction: dawn to justin
dawn: uh, witches don't really look like that.
justin: you got a lot of witch friends?
dawn: no! i mean, from stuff ... that i've read ... and stuff. um, some of them are supposed to be really pretty, and you don't wanna get them mad-
scene direction: zack runs past
zack: new target, come on!
justin: woo-hoo!
scene direction: justin jumps up and runs after zack. janice walks over to dawn and they begin walking after the guys.
janice: so?
dawn: he's okay.
janice: ho-hum okay, or like ... 'oh my god i think i'm gonna pee my pants' okay?
dawn: pee.
scene direction: they both giggle.
scene change: cut to a shot of a mailbox on a wooden stand, draped with orange crepe paper. a foot appears and kicks the mailbox off its stand.
scene direction: pull back to reveal zack who puts his foot back down and continues walking. he and justin walk side-by-side. we can see the girls walking about twenty feet behind.
zack: so what's the verdict, cap'n? is little justin in love?
justin: i don't know.
scene direction: justin punches zack on the arm
justin: she's cute.
zack: well, congratulations for having eyeballs. but what about, uh, you know, going all the way? do you think-
scene direction: the girls can be heard giggling. zack looks back and notices that the girls have gotten closer and are now in earshot.
scene direction: zack loudly
zack: ...that the moon and the stars look lovely tonight?
scene direction: the girls stop giggling. all four continue walking.
janice: hey, you think when we're done with this juvie crap maybe we can do something else? i'm gettin' kinda bored.
scene direction: zack looks off to his right, smiles, stops walking.
zack: just one more.
scene direction: shot of the old man's house from earlier.
scene change: cut to xander sitting on the stairs inside the summers house. a hand appears in front of him holding two plastic cups. he takes one. giles sits beside him holding the other cup.
giles: anya is a wonderful former vengeance demon, i'm sure you'll spend ... many years of ... non-hell-dimensional bliss.
scene direction: xander smiles, looks a bit nervous.
giles: is she moving in with you?
xander: um...
giles: you know, with your combined incomes, you might think about a down payment on a house.
xander: like the kind you *live* in?
giles: no rush. i'm sure you have plenty to think about with the arrangements for the wedding and so on. you've got the rest of your lives to plan the rest of your lives.
scene direction: xander laughs, nervously
xander: yeah, yeah.
scene direction: they sit there. xander looks increasingly nervous.
scene direction: cut back to the old man's house.
scene direction: janice os
janice: no way.
scene change: cut to the four teens standing and looking at the house.
janice: you know who lives there?
justin: old man kaltenbach.
zack: crusty old bastard.
dawn: isn't he supposed to be ... mental or something?
zack: total looney-tunes. pumpkins...
scene direction: closer shot of the house. there's a pumpkin on the front step carved into a cheery smile.
scene direction: zack os
zack: very dangerous.
scene direction: cut back to zack and janice. he nudges her.
zack: you go first.
janice: wha - huh - screw that!
zack: come on, show us how brave you are. let's see those cute little girlie guts.
scene direction: janice shoves him angrily. he just laughs.
justin: hey, lay off, man. if she doesn't wanna-
dawn: i'll do it.
zack: go dawn!
scene direction: justin to dawn
justin: look. you don't have to do this.
scene direction: dawn looks at him
dawn: it's okay.
scene direction: dawn smiles
dawn: i want to.
scene direction: dawn takes a nervous step forward, walks toward the house as the others watch.
scene direction: very nervously, she walks up the steps, picks up the pumpkin, raises it over her head. she turns to smile at the others.
scene direction: the others smile back, then look alarmed.
scene direction: a hand grabs one of dawn's arms. she shrieks in fear and drops the pumpkin. it smashes on the steps.
scene direction: dawn looks fearfully up at the old man as he leans toward her.
kaltenbach: shouldn't oughta mess with those. sometimes they bite.
scene direction: justin runs over, following by zack and janice.
justin: get away from her!
zack: don't make me go kung-fu on you, man!
scene direction: zack makes kung-fu movie gestures
scene direction: the old man stares, then laughs.
kaltenbach: come on inside, kids, got somethin' special for ya.
scene direction: he turns to go back inside.
kaltenbach: daddy's got a treat!
scene direction: he pushes the door open, makes a 'come on' gesture with his head and goes inside.
scene direction: janice looks very scared. zack smiles.
zack: cool.
janice: no no no. we are so not going in there. dawn, tell them!
scene direction: dawn looks nervously toward the door.
scene change: cut to inside. hands playing with a toy robot that spins around and flashes lights and makes noise.
scene direction: we see justin, janice, and dawn sitting on the sofa while mr. kaltenbach does something in the background. the three kids look over at zack playing with the toy.
zack: dude, where'd you get the cool toys?
kaltenbach: used to design 'em back in '58.
scene direction: kaltenbach walks toward them
kaltenbach: nothing would give me more pleasure ... than to see a child's face...
scene direction: kaltenbach dawn and janice exchanging an unhappy look
kaltenbach: light up when he'd open one of mine ... on a christmas or a birthday. i was good. jeepers, i was the best.
scene direction: he continues walking slowly toward zack.
kaltenbach: and then that thing happened. one little mistake ... and they took it all away from me, they...
scene direction: kaltenbach takes the toy from zack
kaltenbach: they took my toys.
scene direction: he turns to put the toy down, turns back. shot of the three kids on the couch looking very fearfully at him.
scene direction: kaltenbach cheerfully
kaltenbach: time for the treats! who wants to help daddy in the kitchen?
scene direction: kaltenbach to dawn
kaltenbach: how 'bout you, sally?
scene direction: dawn frowns.
scene direction: justin gets up
justin: uh, sally's not much for the cookin'. why don't i give you a hand.
scene direction: kaltenbach nods
kaltenbach: hands are good.
scene direction: kaltenbach moves toward the kitchen
kaltenbach: always use more hands. more hands.
scene direction: justin follows him toward the kitchen. mr. kaltenbach begins humming "pop goes the weasel" again.
scene direction: zack sits on the sofa in justin's vacated spot. he picks up a jack-in-the-box and begins turning its handle.
janice: okay, i say we get the funk out of here before satan claus tries to stuff us up the chimney.
zack: what, and miss the big treat? that would break the old guy's little heart! assuming it's still beating.
dawn: she's right, we should just get justin and go.
scene direction: zack still turning the handle
zack: come on, the dude's a thousand years old. what's he gonna do, drown us in his drool cup?
scene direction: the jack-in-the-box pops up. it has no head. dawn looks at it nervously.
dawn: hey. where's its head?
scene change: cut to the kitchen. mr. kaltenbach carefully closes the door leading back to the living room. he turns and walks over to the kitchen island. we see justin looking in the cabinets.
scene direction: mr. kaltenbach goes over to the counter and we see a pan covered with aluminum foil. the large knife lies beside it. he picks up the knife.
scene direction: pan up to his face as he looks at the knife. then we see justin is behind him, wearing vampire face. justin puts his hand on mr. kaltenbach's shoulder.
justin: boo.
scene direction: mr. kaltenbach turns, sees justin's face and reacts with horror.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. justin bends down and bites mr. kaltenbach. the old man gasps and chokes as justin feeds on him. as they sink toward the floor, mr. kaltenbach's hand holding the knife knocks over the foil-covered pan. we see that it's a pan of rice krispy treats, decorated with little candy pumpkins.
scene change: cut to the living room. the noise of the pan falling makes the other three teens jump up in alarm.
janice: what the hell was that?
scene direction: close shot of the pan of rice krispy treats lying on top of the body.
dawn: justin?
scene direction: dawn runs toward the kitchen, stops when she sees the closed door. she walks slowly toward it. janice and zack hover in the background.
scene direction: dawn softly
dawn: justin?
scene direction: dawn reaches out to open the door, jumps back with a yelp of surprise as it pops open before she touches it. justin comes out, wearing his human face, smiling.
justin: let's go.
dawn: wh-what happened?
justin: i swiped his wallet when he wasn't looking. come on!
scene direction: they run for the door.
scene change: cut to the front steps. dawn and janice burst out.
scene direction: dawn scared
dawn: oh my god.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: oh my god, oh my god, oh my god!
scene direction: the girls run off down the street. the boys come out behind them, walking more slowly.
scene direction: justin holds his stomach
justin: dude, that guy was rank.
zack: bet a spritz of dawn would wash that right out. so what do you think? lunchables? or should we go all the way and turn 'em?
scene direction: they exchange a look.
scene change: cut to xander and anya in the summers house.
anya: so i was thinking maybe a june wedding. but then i remembered that they always had the highest percentage of calls for vengeance.
scene direction: we see that xander and anya are standing in front of the couch, talking to giles and buffy who are sitting on the couch.
anya: so now i'm leaning towards as soon as damn possible. i mean, mortal life being so short, we gotta get in as much marital bliss as we can before we wither and die.
scene direction: xander nods, but he looks more and more nervous.
anya: i mean, there's just so much to consider, though, i mean, planning the wedding, and, and new cars, house and babies. you *have* to plan for babies, or they just run roughshod over your entire existence.
scene direction: xander nervously
xander: yeah, y...you gotta know what to call 'em before they hit college.
giles: ah. rupert is an exceptionally strong name.
scene direction: anya laughs
anya: ha ha ha! yeah, if we want our progeny to eat paste and have their lunch money stolen.
scene direction: buffy snickers a little. giles looks insulted.
scene direction: anya stops laughing, clears her throat. giles gives buffy a look.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: look, all that matters is that they're happy.
scene direction: buffy to anya
buffy: everything else is thick gravy goodness.
anya: i know.
scene direction: xander's smile looks a little glazed.
anya: i mean, i am the luckiest ex-demon in the world. i mean, to be able to find the one person in all dimensions that i was meant to be with, and have everything work out exactly as i dreamed.
scene direction: anya xander smiles at her
anya: i mean, how often does the universe allow that to happen?
scene direction: buffy looks a little pensive.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the summers house. the door opens revealing xander, who holds it open for buffy, then follows her out onto the front porch. xander takes a deep breath, fans himself with his pirate hat.
xander: air. sweet mother oxygen.
scene direction: they walk toward the edge of the porch.
buffy: you okay?
xander: yeah. i just ... it's just, i didn't think it would be so much.
scene direction: xander they sit on the railing
buffy: but this is good. i mean, this is ... love and celebration and moving forward. anya's right. this is the way life's supposed to work out.
scene direction: xander nods
xander: right. deep pools of ooey delight. i'm wallowing, not drowning.
buffy: definite wallow action.
xander: okay.
scene direction: xander gets up
xander: so, once more into the breach?
buffy: oh. i think my breaches are wearing a little thin.
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: i'm gonna take spike up on that offer to patrol. gotta be something out there cruisin' for a smackdown.
scene direction: they walk back toward the door. buffy goes down the stairs and xander, taking a moment to compose himself, opens the door and goes back inside.
scene change: cut to justin and dawn walking down the street together.
justin: so you're like, what, a sophomore?
scene direction: dawn laughs
dawn: i wish.
justin: uhhh, freshman.
dawn: yep, way down there at the bottom of the rung. actually? kinda under those little rubber feet they use to keep the ladder steady.
justin: hey, those are important.
scene direction: justin hands her some money
justin: here. the spoils of war. you earned it.
scene direction: dawn smiles
dawn: i did?
justin: yeah, for keepin' me steady.
scene direction: they smile at each other.
justin: and so begins your life of crime.
dawn: hmm. you're a little late. i steal all the time.
scene direction: justin skeptical
justin: really.
dawn: totally. i haven't paid for lipstick since ... forever.
justin: oh, be still my heart, cute *and* bad.
dawn: yeah,
scene direction: dawn hugs herself
dawn: bad to the bone.
justin: more like frozen! here.
scene direction: he takes off his sunnydale high school jacket and puts it around dawn's shoulders.
dawn: thanks.
justin: my pleasure, miss summers.
scene direction: they gaze into each other's eyes. then janice appears behind them.
janice: hey. where's zack?
scene direction: justin a little annoyed
justin: he went to get the car.
scene direction: dawn delighted
dawn: you guys got a car?
scene change: cut to zack pulling a woman out of her car. the woman drops to the pavement, unconscious, as zack gets into the driver's seat.
zack: thanks for the ride!
scene direction: the tires squeal as he drives off.
scene change: cut to buffy walking down the street surrounded by kids in costume.
scene direction: she pauses, watches a couple walking with arms around each other. continues walking.
scene direction: an ambulance goes by, siren wailing. buffy stop walking, frowns.
scene change: cut to buffy walking up to the crime scene. a small crowd has gathered. buffy sees paramedics loading the woman driver onto a gurney.
paramedic 1: i'm losing her pulse.
paramedic 2: let's get her in!
scene direction: buffy watches with concern.
scene direction: close-up on the woman's neck. vampire bites clearly visible.
scene direction: buffy scowls, hurries away.
scene change: cut to the summers kitchen. the phone rings. giles answers it.
giles: summers residence. ... oh,
scene direction: giles smiles
giles: mrs. penshaw, yes, uh ...
scene direction: giles stops smiling
giles: no, dawn said she was staying the night at your house. well, ye-yes, i realize that now, but i don't believe that you called to check -- all right, le-let's just, um, if i, if i hear anything i'll let you know.
scene direction: he hangs up.
scene change: cut to the living room. tara sits on the sofa watching as xander, anya, and willow dance to music. tara looks a little forlorn.
scene direction: giles comes in, walks over to the stereo and turns off the music.
willow: hey, we were just gettin' our dance on.
giles: that was janice's mother on the telephone. apparently janice said that she was staying here tonight.
xander: ahh, they're dipping into the classics. you gotta respect that.
giles: is buffy still outside?
scene direction: giles going toward the door
xander: uh, no, no, she was gettin' antsy, she went to find spike to patrol.
giles: well, it's nice to be kept in the loop. um ... xander, anya, you stay here in case mrs. penshaw calls again. willow, tara, you check downtown.
scene direction: giles going toward the door
giles: i'll, uh, swing by spike's, see if i can catch buffy.
scene direction: giles grabs his jacket and exits.
scene change: cut to a dark part of the forest. the car is parked. the back door opens and janice gets out, giggling as zack is groping her. he gets out after her.
scene direction: zack into the car
zack: don't do nothing i would, dude.
scene direction: zack shuts the door as janice grabs him by the front of his shirt and kisses him.
janice: you're it.
scene direction: she turns and runs into the forest.
zack: i love it when they run.
scene direction: he morphs into vamp face and runs after her.
scene change: cut to inside the car. dawn and justin sit. she still wears his jacket.
dawn: so.
justin: yeah.
dawn: ooh. it's cold. you okay? you want this back?
justin: nah. cold doesn't really bother me.
scene direction: dawn smiles
dawn: what are you, superman?
justin: no, but ... i do have a few special powers.
scene direction: he leans over as if to kiss her.
scene direction: dawn nervously
dawn: hey ... um ... does this work?
scene direction: dawn twisting the radio dial
justin: you gotta ... turn the ignition.
scene direction: he turns the key and the radio starts up. dawn smiles, nods. justin watches her with a smile.
dawn: i love this one.
scene direction: justin brushes hair back from her face
justin: another thing we have in common.
scene direction: dawn doesn't reply, glances at him and then away, looking very nervous.
justin: you're shaking.
dawn: it's cold.
justin: you ... wanna go?
dawn: n-no. it's just, um ... what do you expect-
justin: shhh. i just wanna taste you.
scene direction: he leans toward her again. she leans in to him and they kiss.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. dawn and justin continue kissing for a moment, then dawn pulls back a little, looking dazed.
dawn: shiver me timbers.
justin: what?
dawn: um ... nothing. just ... wow.
justin: oh, my god. that was your first.
dawn: what? no.
justin: it was! that was your first kiss.
scene direction: dawn nervous laugh
dawn: i've been kissed before. i, i kiss all the time. not that i'm a kiss slut. just, you know, with, with the lips and, and the pressing together and stuff? big expert here.
scene direction: justin just looks at her, with a little grin.
dawn: okay, okay, it was my first kiss.
scene direction: dawn upset
dawn: i know, i know, i suck, my ... my lips are dry and my tongue's all horrible and sticky and i'm pretty sure i drooled on you ... so just please tell me how awful it was.
scene direction: justin pulls her toward him and kisses her again briefly. she looks surprised.
justin: it was perfect.
scene direction: they resume kissing.
scene change: cut to the bronze. a band is on stage performing. various people in halloween costumes are dancing.
scene direction: pan to the door. willow and tara enter. they see a couple dancing close together, dressed as luke skywalker and princess leia.
willow: do they know they're brother and sister?
scene direction: tara yelling over the music
tara: do you think she's here?
scene direction: willow yelling
willow: what?
tara: do you think dawn might have come here?
willow: it's where i'd be if i were fifteen and on the lam.
scene direction: they begin to walk around.
tara: really?
willow: well, not me at fifteen, 'cause, hello, spaz.
tara: you?
willow: yeah. hard to believe such a hot mama-yama came from humble, geek-infested roots?
scene direction: they begin climbing the stairs to the balcony.
tara: infested roots, trying to turn me on?
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: i have to try now?
scene direction: they kiss and continue walking up the stairs. they reach the top.
willow: come on, let's look over here.
tara: do you see her?
willow: no, there's too many people.
tara: maybe we can have security-
willow: no, that'll take too long.
scene direction: they climb another partial set of stairs to a second balcony level. willow goes over to the railing and looks down on the people dancing.
willow: one among many, many fade to one-
scene direction: tara grabs her hand
tara: what are you doing? will?
willow: i'm just gonna clear the crowd.
tara: how?
willow: i'll just shift everyone who isn't a fifteen-year-old girl into an alternate dimension.
scene direction: willow smiling
scene direction: tara horrified
tara: what?
willow: no, it'll be for like a fraction of a second. they won't even notice.
tara: will, no, you can't!
willow: why?
tara: well, what if something went wrong?
willow: well, it won't!
tara: but w-what would giles say?
scene direction: willow toward the crowd
willow: sukut!
scene direction: the crowd noises all go away, leaving it silent, although the people continue to dance and the band keeps playing like nothing's wrong.
scene direction: willow to tara
willow: are you taking his side now?
tara: this isn't about sides.
willow: you two have been talking about me behind my back.
tara: no! god.
willow: you know how that makes me feel?
tara: willow, you are using too much magic. what do you want me to do, just, just sit back and keep my mouth shut?
willow: well, that'd be a good start.
scene direction: tara looks shocked.
tara: if i didn't love you so damn much i would!
scene direction: tara turns and storms away.
willow: takulum.
scene direction: the crowd noises resume.
willow: tara!
scene direction: willow stands there, not following after tara.
scene direction: cut back to the car. dawn and justin still kissing. it continues for a few moments.
dawn: ow!
scene direction: dawn pulls back
justin: sorry.
dawn: it's okay. long as it's not bleeding.
scene direction: they resume kissing. then dawn pulls back again.
dawn: justin ... could we...
justin: it's just ...
scene direction: justin looking at her
justin: god, you are so beautiful.
scene direction: dawn smiles. they resume kissing.
scene direction: dawn's hand is on justin's arm. it moves up his arm across his shoulder, across his neck, to rest on his cheek. we see that he's now in vampire face.
scene direction: dawn realizes it and her eyes widen.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. buffy bursts in holding her stake.
buffy: get your gear together. we need to...
scene direction: she stops as she realizes spike is nowhere to be seen. the tv is on, playing a black-and-white horror movie.
scene direction: buffy looks around.
buffy: spike?
scene direction: spike os
spike: you know...
scene direction: buffy jumps, turns to find him right behind her.
spike: ...in civilized cultures, that's called trespassing.
buffy: good thing you're uncivilized. we got trouble.
spike: giles found you?
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: giles? no. was he looking for me?
spike: yeah, it's dawn.
buffy: dawn?
scene direction: buffy alarmed
buffy: why, what happened?
spike: no, it's okay, giles was by here earlier looking for you. dawn and her little friend pulled a houdini. up to a bit of candy-corn mischief, i suspect.
buffy: wait, she's out there running around by herself?
spike: yeah, kids these days, eh?
scene direction: buffy walks quickly past him.
spike: i did a sweep of the tunnels, giles is poking about the cemetery.
buffy: we have to find her.
scene direction: buffy opens a coffin(?) by the wall.
spike: i don't think she's in there.
scene direction: buffy takes out some weapons, tosses spike a crossbow. he catches it, frowns a little.
scene change: cut to the cemetery. it's dark and foggy. giles walks around with a flashlight, shining it around, looking around.
giles: mist ... cemetery ... halloween. should end well.
scene direction: he trips on something, falls on his face out of the shot. the camera stays where it is. after a moment giles reappears in the shot.
giles: bloody brilliant.
scene direction: he composes himself and resumes looking around.
scene direction: sound of a girl screaming. giles begins to run.
scene change: cut to the forest. giles runs among some trees, shines his flashlight on a vampire biting a girl.
giles: dawn!
scene direction: the vampire lifts his head and growls. giles pushes him away and he rolls down a short hill.
giles: dawn, are you all right?
scene direction: giles grabs the girl, who lifts her head to reveal that she's janice.
giles: janice?
janice: he bit me. that jerk bit me!
zack: like you weren't asking for it.
scene direction: giles turns to see zack behind him, still in game face.
giles: i feel certain she wasn't.
zack: what do you know about it, grandpa?
scene direction: zack swings a punch at giles, who ducks and tackles zack around the middle.
giles: quite a bit actually.
scene direction: they go down and roll down the hill, entangled together. janice watches fearfully.
scene direction: at the bottom of the hill giles and zack get up and trade blows. zack does most of the punching, then kicks giles and he goes down. from his knees, giles blocks another punch and hits zack in the stomach, then gets up and kicks him. zack flies backward and winds up against a tree.
scene direction: zack looks down to see a branch sticking out of his body.
zack: dude, that sucks.
scene direction: he dusts.
scene direction: giles toward janice
giles: dawn. where's dawn?
scene direction: janice makes a helpless "i don't know" gesture, holding her neck with one hand.
scene change: cut to the car. dawn scrambles out through her door.
justin: dawn!
dawn: get off me!
justin: dawn, wait! wait!
scene direction: dawn runs off. justin climbs out and runs after her.
scene direction: he catches up with her, stops her. he's still in game face.
justin: i thought we could, you know, like hang out or something.
dawn: hang out?
justin: yeah. i mean ... you're not like other girls. you're different. there's something special about you. i knew it the first time i saw you.
scene direction: dawn looks like she wants to believe him.
justin: i just wanna be close to you.
scene direction: he puts his hand to her face. dawn gasps and jerks away.
justin: shh. it's okay. it'll only hurt for a second.
scene direction: dawn closes her eyes as he bends over to bite her.
scene direction: giles os
giles: i bet you say that to all the girls.
scene direction: giles comes around a tree.
dawn: giles?
scene direction: dawn turns to see giles behind her. justin grabs her by the throat.
scene direction: giles walks forward
giles: now, you have a choice, son. we can do this the easy way, or we can do this the ha-
scene direction: giles stops as a bright light suddenly shines on him, blinding him. he puts up a hand to shield it, looks around.
scene direction: sounds of car doors opening.
scene direction: we see that there are a number of cars parked in a circle around the clearing, all with their lights pointing inward. vampires get out of all the cars and begin to advance on giles. he looks around nervously. then looks over at justin who still holds dawn by the throat.
scene direction: justin smirking
justin: what were my choices again?
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. giles faces off with justin and dawn as the other vampires advance.
scene direction: a hand clamps onto giles's shoulder and he jumps, looks over to see it's spike.
spike: so. this a private game, or, uh, can anyone join in?
scene direction: buffy runs up.
buffy: dawn, are you...
scene direction: buffy pauses, stares at the scene.
scene direction: justin lets go of dawn, who moves a foot or two away from him.
scene direction: buffy outraged
buffy: were you parking?! with a vamp?
dawn: i-i didn't know he was dead!
justin: living dead.
dawn: shut up!
buffy: how could you not know?
dawn: i just met him!
buffy: oh! oh, so you were parking in the woods with a boy you just met.
justin: we've seen each other at parties.
buffy: shut up.
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: i don't believe you!
scene direction: spike looks around with a frown.
dawn: oh, like you've never fallen for a vampire?
buffy: that was different.
dawn: it always is when it's you.
vamp 1: uh, excuse me! can we fight now?
buffy: hey, didn't anyone come here to just make out?
scene direction: one guy and girl in the back, not vampires, raise their hands.
buffy: aw, that's sweet. you run.
scene direction: the guy and girl do so.
scene direction: buffy to vamp 1
buffy: you scream.
scene direction: buffy, spike, and giles take off in different directions.
scene direction: spike pursues the vamp who complained. the vamp kicks him and spike punches him a few times.
scene direction: giles stands by one of the cars and hits one vamp, gets kicked in the chest by another and then she pins him against the car.
vamp 2: die, slayer!
scene direction: vamp 2 rushes at buffy. she simply steps back and stakes him as he runs past her.
buffy: mm-hmm.
scene direction: he dusts.
scene direction: justin to dawn
justin: your sister's the slayer? i totally get it! i knew there was something about you.
scene direction: dawn makes an angry face, knees him in the groin and runs off.
scene direction: giles continues to have difficulties with two female vamps. one is on his back and he manages to throw her onto the other.
buffy: giles!
scene direction: buffy throws him a stake. he catches it, stakes one vamp, ducks a punch and stakes the second.
scene direction: giles pauses, looks around. suddenly another vamp appears and tackles him, both landing on the car's roof and sliding off the other end.
scene direction: spike continues trading blows with the first vamp. spike takes a hit and goes down.
vamp 1: what is your malfunction, man?!
scene direction: spike makes an angry face, gets up and shoves the vamp down into the dirt.
spike: it's halloween, you nit! we take the night off. those are the rules.
scene direction: vamp 1 gets up
vamp 1: me and mine don't follow no stinkin' rules! we're rebels!
scene direction: he takes a swing at spike, who blocks it, head-butts him, and then kicks him in the chest. the vamp slams back against a tree trunk and slides down it to the ground.
spike: no. i'm a rebel. you're an idiot.
scene direction: spike pulls out his crossbow and shoots the vamp. vamp 1 dusts.
scene direction: spike begins reloading the crossbow.
spike: give the lot of us a bad name.
scene direction: he finishes reloading, looks up just as another vamp tackles him. the crossbow goes off accidentally, the arrow flying off into the woods as spike and the vampire hit the ground.
scene direction: buffy continues fighting another vamp. they trade blows and then he picks her up and slams her onto the hood of a car. buffy rolls aside as he punches. his fist goes through the metal. while he struggles to pull it out, buffy kicks him, flips up to stand on the car. the vamp grabs for her and she jumps out of the way. he grabs both her legs and she falls on her butt on the car, gets one leg free and kicks him away.
scene direction: the vamp comes back, punches buffy, pins her against the car and pulls the antenna loose from the car. he tries to garrote her with it but she pushes him away, uses the side of the car to flip around behind him, tries to garrote him in return. he breaks free and they trade some more punches and kicks. the vamp rushes buffy and she opens the car door to block him. he punches at her and his fist shatters the car window. he swings at buffy and she grabs him, pulls him through the car window to the other side, kicks him back and slams the car door on his head. he dusts.
scene direction: buffy turns and walks off.
scene change: cut to dawn walking slowly through the forest. she hears a noise and turns, nervous. she continues to walk backward, looking around, very scared.
scene direction: justin suddenly appears behind her.
justin: trick or treat.
scene direction: dawn screams, runs off, but justin grabs her by the back of her (his) jacket and pulls her to the ground. he lands on top of her, straddling her, holding her hands down.
justin: give me something good to eat.
dawn: i thought you really liked me.
scene direction: he lets go of her hands and sits up a little, still straddling her.
justin: i do. and you like me too.
scene direction: dawn sighs, nods
dawn: i do.
scene direction: justin leans down to bite her. dawn looks at the sky.
scene direction: suddenly he stops, gasps, and turns to dust. we see the stake in dawn's hand.
scene direction: she lies there looking upset.
scene change: cut to the summers house. xander and anya are preparing to leave.
buffy: sorry about the party.
xander: aah, don't worry about it.
anya: it gave me more time to plan the bridal shower. where do we order obscenely muscular male strippers?
xander: anya.
anya: well, i'm kidding, geez.
scene direction: xander exits. anya mouths at buffy, "we'll talk," and exits too.
scene direction: spike comes up behind buffy.
spike: guess i should bugger off. something about big bads not venturing far from their crypts on halloween.
buffy: good fight.
scene direction: spike nods at her, exits. buffy watches him go as willow comes up behind her.
willow: so, uh, big monster mashing? sorry we missed it.
scene direction: tara comes up to them too, walks past willow to stand beside buffy.
tara: as long as dawn's all right.
willow: yeah, that's what's-
scene direction: tara to buffy
tara: i, i think i'm gonna turn in. good night.
scene direction: tara goes up the stairs. willow looks concerned.
willow: tara ... tara.
scene direction: willow follows tara. buffy watches them go. in background we can see dawn sitting by herself in the dining room.
scene direction: giles comes up and watches willow and tara go too. he's holding an ice-pack to his mouth.
buffy: how's your face?
scene direction: giles takes the icepack away from his face
giles: oh, still ruggedly handsome. 'grandpa,' indeed.
scene direction: giles puts the ice back
giles: ow.
scene direction: buffy looking toward dawn
buffy: she's taking it pretty hard.
giles: well, it's not surprising. still, we can't ignore this kind of behavior. something needs to be done before it spins out of control.
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: you're right. i'm glad you're here to take care of it. don't ... be too hard on her, okay?
scene direction: buffy goes up the stairs. giles stares after her in surprise. then he turns and goes reluctantly into the dining room, goes over to dawn, takes the ice-pack off his face again.
giles: we need to have a conversation.
scene direction: dawn quietly
dawn: this the part where you tell me you're not angry ... just disappointed?
scene direction: dawn looks anxiously at him
giles: pretty much.
scene direction: giles tosses the ice-pack onto the table
giles: except for the bit about not being angry.
scene direction: dawn looks scared.
scene change: cut to willow and tara's room.
willow: i, i'm sorry, okay?
tara: it's not that easy.
scene direction: we see tara taking throw-pillows off the bed. both she and willow wear pajamas.
willow: well, what do you want me to do? reverse time and take it back?
scene direction: willow small laugh
willow: 'cause i could probably-
scene direction: tara gives her a grim look.
willow: joke. i don't think i could really-
scene direction: tara angrily
tara: you know what, can, can we not do this now? i'm tired.
scene direction: tara gets into bed
willow: okay. let's just forget it ever happened.
scene direction: willow goes over to a side table, picks up a small piece of herb with a couple of flowers on it. she holds it in her palm.
scene direction: willow softly
willow: forget.
scene direction: a flash of light moves across the herb, leaving it dead and wilted.
scene direction: willow turns off the light, goes over to the bed and turns off another light, gets into bed.
scene direction: tara smiles, giggles.
tara: ooh, your feet are cold.
willow: better warm me up.
tara: mmm.
scene direction: tara snuggles up to willow.
tara: this is how every day should always end ... and start. and all the stuff in the middle.
scene direction: tara kisses willow's cheek
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: so, uh ... you're not mad?
tara: 'bout what?
scene direction: willow smiles to herself and closes her eyes.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon.
scene direction: the end