scene direction: episode opens on buffy walking through the cemetery, night. she holds a stake. the camera moves up on her from behind.
scene direction: suddenly buffy whirls around and lifts her stake. reveal spike directly behind her. he jumps back a little.
scene direction: buffy looks annoyed.
spike: can we talk?
buffy: vocal-cord-wise, yes. with each other? no.
scene direction: she turns, walks a few steps away.
spike: we have to talk.
scene direction: buffy stops walking, sighs
buffy: about what?
spike: we kissed, buffy.
buffy: so?
scene direction: she resumes walking. spike follows, a few feet behind.
spike: we ... we kissed, you and me. all gone with the wind, with the rising music, and the rising ... music, and what was that, buffy?
buffy: a spell?
spike: oh, don't get all prim and proper with me.
scene direction: spike speeds up, walks in front of her. they stop walking.
spike: i know what kind of girl you really are.
scene direction: spike buffy glaring at him
spike: don't i.
buffy: what we did is done. but i will never kiss you, spike. never touch you ever, *ever* again.
scene direction: spike cocks his head, looks about to speak.
scene direction: suddenly buffy grabs him and pulls him to the ground. spike lands on his back with buffy on top of him. a stake goes flying through the air where spike just was, ends up stuck in a tree.
scene direction: they both look up.
scene direction: we see a demon with the head of a shark, wearing a flamboyant suit. behind him are two vampire minions.
shark demon: easy, boys. no need to get physical-like.
scene direction: the demon chuckles. buffy gets up off of spike, brushes herself off, annoyed. spike gets up too.
shark demon: is there, mister spike?
buffy: you know this guy?!
spike: yeah.
scene direction: spike to demon
spike: whadda you want?
scene direction: shark demon walks forward
shark demon: you know me, uh ... there are a lot of things i would like, mister spike.
scene direction: shark demon pulls the stake out of the tree
shark demon: a house in bel air ...
scene direction: shark demon walks toward spike
shark demon: with a generously sized swimming pool ... and of course, the forty siamese that you owe me.
scene direction: the demon puts his arm around spike's neck, pulls spike close to him.
spike: take it easy, you'll get your kittens.
scene direction: spike buffy rolls her eyes
shark demon: oh, i trust you, mister spike.
scene direction: shark demon lets him go
buffy: oh god, what is it with you guys? why kittens? why can't you just use money like everybody else?
scene direction: shark demon to spike
shark demon: she's funny. i like funny in a girl.
spike: i just need a little more time.
shark demon: time, time, time! is what turns kittens into cats! look, i don't wanna see anyone get hurt.
scene direction: shark demon turns away
shark demon: boys.
scene direction: the demon walks a few steps away. the vampires grin, walk forward.
scene direction: buffy leaps up, grabs a tree branch, and kicks the first vampire with both feet. he lands at the demon's feet. the demon turns back.
buffy: then you'd better close your eyes.
scene direction: she pushes spike aside and punches the second vampire a couple of times. he goes down. buffy folds her arms across her chest.
vamp 1: i said she was the slayer, boss.
shark demon: ahh, good for you. the vampire slayer.
scene direction: shark demon to buffy
shark demon: have you ever given any thought to, uh, freelance work? a little debt collecting, perhaps?
scene direction: buffy continues to stand there with her arms crossed, giving the demon her no-nonsense look.
buffy: no thank you.
vamp 1: boss, he's gone. spike has split.
scene direction: buffy looks surprised, looks around.
shark demon: well, that's what i get for socializing. all right, come on, boys, we'll locate mister spike and, uh, *talk* to him a little more.
scene direction: the demon adjusts his tie, turns to go, then turns back to buffy.
shark demon: oh. it was a genuine pleasure.
scene direction: the demon and his minions leave.
scene direction: buffy looks disgusted, sighs.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: if i were to stop saving his life, it would simple things up *so* much.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene change: open on exterior shot of xander's building, night. cut to inside. anya, xander, willow, and tara sit around the table.
anya: do you think she ... walked around on clouds, wearing like ... birkenstocks and played a harp? 'cause those are just not flattering. you know, the clonky sandals, not a harp.
scene direction: anya softly
anya: i mean, who ... doesn't look good with a harp?
scene direction: the others just look at her. they all look grim.
anya: what? i'm just saying what everyone's thinking,
scene direction: anya to xander
anya: right baby?
xander: you are attractive and have many good qualities.
tara: it's totally not stupid to wonder what it was like for buffy. but it could have been any one of a zillion heavenly dimensions. all we know is that ... it was a good place and she was happy there.
willow: and we took her away from that. we wrecked it for her.
xander: we didn't wreck. we didn't know.
willow: we didn't wanna know.
scene direction: willow tara looks sadly at her
willow: we were so selfish. *i* was so selfish.
scene direction: xander shakes head
xander: maybe we were. i just feel weird feeling bad that my friend's not dead. it's ... too mind-boggling. so i've decided to simplify the whole thing. me like buffy. buffy's alive, so, me glad.
tara: not to be miss psycho pep squad, but we have *got* to stop obsessing about what we did and start trying to make things better for buffy.
anya: i'm with miss psycho pep squad.
xander: ah, we need to spend more time with her, just hang out. maybe have ... weekly dinners over here, or, uh ... a book club. short books. videos.
willow: i can fix it. i know a spell.
scene direction: tara angrily
tara: no! no more spells.
scene direction: xander looks from tara to willow, confused.
scene direction: willow to tara
willow: then what? this isn't something that's gonna be fixed by a video club. i know i messed up, okay, and ... i wanna fix it.
tara: i can't believe that we are talking about this again. you know how powerful magic is, how dangerous. you could hurt someone, you ... you could hurt yourself.
scene direction: willow shaking head
willow: i know a spell that will make her forget she was ever in heaven.
scene direction: tara angrily
tara: god, what is wrong with you?!
scene direction: xander getting up
xander: i'm gonna go get that ... phone you probably don't hear. high-pitched ring, ears like a dog.
anya: i'm gonna help you with that.
scene direction: xander and anya flee into the bedroom leaving tara and willow alone.
tara: do you think i'm stupid? i know you used that spell on me.
willow: tara, i'm sorry, i- tara: don't! just ... don't.
scene direction: willow shakes head
willow: there's nothing you can say.
willow: tara, i didn't mean to- tara: to what? violate my mind like that? how could you, willow? how could you after what glory did to me?
willow: violate you? i ... i-i didn't ... mean anything like that, i-i, i just wanted us not to fight any more. i love you.
tara: if you don't wanna fight, you don't fight. you don't use magic to make a fight disappear.
willow: but i-i just wanted to make things better. better for us.
tara: but you don't get to decide what is better for us, will. we're in a relationship, we are supposed to decide together.
willow: okay. i'm ... i realize i, i did it wrong.
tara: you did it the way you're doing everything. when things get rough, you ... you don't even consider the options. you just ... you just do a spell. it's not good for you, willow. and it's not what magic is for.
scene direction: willow anxious
willow: but i ... i just wanna help people.
tara: maybe that's how it started, but ... you're helping yourself now, fixing things to your liking. including me.
willow: tara, no!
scene direction: tara looks away. beat.
scene direction: tara tearfully
tara: i don't think this is gonna work.
willow: hey. it is, i-it's working.
scene direction: willow tara just looks at her, looks down
willow: tara, please. i need you, baby. i need you. i don't need magic, i-i don't, i ... let me prove it to you, okay? i, i will go a month without doing any magic. i won't do a single spell. i swear.
scene direction: tara looks at her, nods.
tara: go a week. one week without magic.
scene direction: willow excited
willow: fine. fine, that's easy!
scene direction: tara nods, not convinced
tara: go a week, and then we'll see.
scene direction: willow's face falls.
tara: i don't know, i just ... think we both need some ... i don't know, space.
scene direction: tara willow looks upset
tara: oh, i can't believe i'm saying this.
willow: are you saying you're gonna leave me?
scene change: cut to giles sitting on the sofa in the workout room.
giles: i have to.
scene direction: reveal buffy standing beside him. she looks shocked.
buffy: uh-huh.
scene direction: she sits on a pile of exercise mats, frowning.
giles: you have to be strong. i'm, i'm trying to- buffy:
scene direction: giles jumps up
giles: trying to, to what?
scene direction: giles angrily
giles: desert me? abandon me? leave me all alone when i really need somebody?
scene direction: giles quietly
giles: i don't want to leave- buffy: so don't. please don't.
scene direction: she goes to sit beside him.
buffy: i can't do this without you.
giles: you can. that's why i'm going. as long as i stay you'll always turn to me if there's something comes up that you feel that you can't handle, and i'll step in because, because ...
scene direction: giles pause, sighs
giles: because i can't bear to see you suffer.
buffy: me too. hate suffering. had about as much of it as i can take.
giles: believe me, i'm loathe to cause you more, but this...
scene direction: giles pauses. buffy looks on the verge of tears.
giles: i've taught you all i can about being a slayer, and your mother taught you what you needed to know about life.
scene direction: giles buffy looks away, pouting
giles: you ... you're not gonna trust that until you're forced to stand alone.
buffy: but why now? now that you know where i've been, what i'm going through?
giles: now more than ever. the temptation to give up is gonna be overwhelming, and i can't let- buffy: so i won't! no giving up. you can be here, and i can still be strong.
scene direction: beat. she stares at him anxiously.
giles: buffy, i've thought this over ... and over. i believe it's the right thing to do.
buffy: you're wrong.
scene direction: she gets up and strides out. giles just sits there.
scene change: cut to interior of the summers house. angle down the stairs from above. tara and dawn stand at the foot of the stairs.
scene direction: dawn calls up the stairs
dawn: willow, come on, you ready?
scene direction: willow appears at the top of the stairs wearing a towel around her body and another towel on her hair.
willow: not so much. you go ahead, tell giles to hold up. i'll be there in a sec.
scene direction: tara annoyed
tara: fine.
scene direction: tara moves toward the door
dawn: hurry up. you don't wanna miss the lowdown on our latest featured creature.
scene direction: willow watches tara and dawn leave. then she goes back up the stairs, off camera. magic sound-effect. willow reappears, fully dressed and with her hair dried and combed, smiling.
scene direction: willow walks down the stairs and into the living room. she opens a cabinet and takes out a plastic bag that was hidden behind some books.
scene direction: she kneels by the fireplace, takes a large piece of lethe's bramble (forget herb) from the bag and puts it in the fireplace.
willow: for buffy and tara, this i char.
scene direction: she strikes a match and sets the flowers on fire.
willow: let lethe's bramble do its chore. purge their minds of memories grim, of pains from recent slights and sins.
scene direction: she reaches into a small pouch on her belt, takes out a clear crystal and holds it in the flames.
willow: when the fire goes out, when the crystal turns black, the spell will be cast.
scene direction: willow pulls the crystal back
willow: tabula rasa, tabula rasa, tabula rasa.
scene direction: she puts the crystal back in her belt-pouch, gets up and leaves.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the magic shop.
dawn voiceover: so whadda we got?
scene change: cut to inside. giles, anya, and tara sit at the round table. anya and tara are thumb-wrestling. buffy sits on the stairs leading to the loft. dawn stands nearby.
scene direction: giles to dawn
giles: sorry?
dawn: what kind of oogly-boogleys? lizardy types, or um, zombies, or, or vampires, or what?
scene direction: giles cleaning glasses
giles: there are no oogly-boogleys, dawn.
scene direction: the door opens and xander and willow enter. willow is wearing xander's jacket.
willow: thanks for the jacket. it's cold out there.
xander: not a problem, the cold only makes me stronger and more macho-like.
scene direction: they come over to join the others. giles stands.
giles: i'm glad you're here, um...
scene direction: the others look expectantly at him. buffy just glares.
giles: i have something i really have to tell you all. um ... i know it feels like we've been through this before- buffy: why don't you just jump to the chase?
scene direction: giles gets down from stairs
giles: tell them that you're- the door opens again and spike rushes in, sizzling slightly from the sunlight. everyone turns to look.
scene direction: spike is wearing an old-fashioned brown suit with a bow-tie, and a padded hat with earflaps.
giles: spike?
anya: holy moly.
spike: you need to give me asylum.
xander: i'll say.
xander: no need to get cute.
scene direction: xander takes off hat, throws it down
xander: it's a disguise. happens there's a bloke i'd rather not see just now.
scene direction: spike walks farther into the store as the others watch in amusement. he hops up to sit on the counter beside the cash register.
scene direction: spike to buffy
spike: you met him, i believe. toothy bloke with the baby-seal breath?
scene direction: buffy rolls her eyes.
spike: nasty fellow, him. and ugly too.
scene direction: willow looks down, pulls the crystal from her pouch to check it. it glows green.
scene direction: spike os
spike: he's got a mouthful of choppers just waiting to be yanked out and worn as necklaces.
scene change: shot of the exterior of the summers house. fade to inside. close shot on the fireplace.
scene direction: a spark from the fire lands on the bag of herbs that willow left lying beside the fireplace. it all begins to burn with a green light.
scene direction: cut back to the magic shop.
giles: well, now that we've recovered from spike's ... sartorial humor,
scene direction: giles sighs
giles: i'll jump
scene direction: giles glancing at buffy
giles: to the chase. um ... i'm headed back to england
scene direction: giles dawn looking surprised
giles: and i plan to stay ... indefinitely.
scene direction: giles sits beside anya. everyone looks surprised.
xander: now? not now, i mean, not after ... everything.
giles: yes, now.
anya: for real this time? 'cause honest to pete, a young shopkeeper's heart can only take so much ... i mean, not that i want you to go- buffy: i can't do this.
scene direction: buffy walks quickly past them, up the stairs, toward the door.
buffy: i just, i don't think...
willow: buffy, listen.
scene direction: buffy stops, turns back.
willow: i know this must be awful for you, and i, i'm sorry, i ... i'm so sorry for...
scene direction: buffy nods impatiently.
buffy: sorry. everybody's sorry. i know that you guys are just trying to help ... but it's just, it's too much. and, and i, i can't take it any more.
scene direction: buffy tearful
buffy: if you guys ... if you guys understood how it felt ... how it feels. it's like i'm dying, it- suddenly she falls to the floor, unconscious.
scene direction: the others all fall down too. giles and anya slump over together in their seats. willow and xander fall to the floor in a heap. spike falls over onto some books on the counter.
scene change: cut to the living room. zoom in on the smoking pile of ashes that used to be the entire bagful of lethe's bramble.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open inside the magic shop. it's now night. everyone is still asleep.
scene direction: pan across giles and anya leaning on each other, tara by herself in a chair, dawn on the floor on the lower level. spike on the counter, willow and xander on the floor together, and buffy on the floor on the higher level.
scene direction: buffy stirs, wakes, sits up.
buffy: huh?
scene direction: she stands up, frowning. goes to a light switch and turns the light on.
scene direction: the others begin to stir. willow sits up, sees that she was snuggled with xander, gives a gasp and jumps back. xander sees her and gasps too. they stare at each other. xander gives her a cheesy seductive grin.
xander: hey.
scene direction: willow uncertain
willow: hey?
scene direction: anya wakes up, yawns. giles's head is on her shoulder. he lifts his head, sees that he drooled on her, wipes at her shoulder with his hand. anya looks very startled.
scene direction: tara wakes up, looks around in confusion.
scene direction: anya turns to see who's behind her. she and giles frown at each other in confusion.
giles: hello?
scene direction: spike, still asleep, rolls over and falls off the counter with a crashing noise. dawn wakes up shrieking at the noise.
scene direction: spike gets to his feet behind the counter, looks around.
scene direction: dawn sits up on the floor, scoots back into a corner looking around fearfully. buffy comes forward.
dawn: who, who are you people?
scene direction: buffy kneels beside dawn. dawn cringes back.
buffy: don't worry.
dawn: please don't hurt me!
scene direction: dawn moves away from buffy
buffy: oh, it's okay. i don't know anyone here either.
scene direction: dawn nervous
dawn: yeah? who are you?
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: i, uh...
scene direction: xander scrambling to his feet
xander: okay, who are you freaks?
scene direction: buffy, dawn, and willow stand too.
willow: you don't know me?
xander: not a clue.
willow: but you were just all like,
scene direction: willow imitating him
willow: 'oh, hey.' xander: yeah, 'cause i thought you were a girl and i'd remember, but...
scene direction: willow grabs her breasts
willow: well, i am a girl! i'm ... not sure ... who i am exactly, but...
scene direction: xander yelling
xander: okay, why was i on the ground? and why are you all staring at me? is this some kind of psych test? am i getting paid for this?
scene direction: giles gets up
giles: it's not just you. does anyone remember anything?
scene direction: everyone shakes their heads.
spike: nope.
scene direction: giles smiling
giles: well, maybe we all got ... terribly drunk and this is some sort of, uh, blackout.
scene direction: dawn uncertain
dawn: i don't think i drink.
anya: i-i don't see any booze. i don't feel any head bumps.
scene direction: anya looks around
anya: i don't see allen funt.
giles: who?
scene direction: xander panicky
xander: okay. i'm not panicking. i'm not. i'm not.
scene direction: xander everyone looking at him
xander: stop looking at me like i'm panicking!
buffy: hey, hey, take it easy, guy. okay, no one's hurt, right? and, and none of us look all hatchety-murdery, so ... we're probably safe. here. wherever here is.
scene direction: willow looks around
willow: look at this stuff on these shelves. weird jars of weird stuff.
scene direction: she goes over to the counter, looks at the jars behind spike.
willow: weird books with weird covers, like
scene direction: willow picks up a book from the counter
willow: magic for beginners.
scene direction: willow revelation
willow: oh!
scene direction: tara gets up
tara: this is a magic shop. a-a-a real magic shop.
buffy: well, maybe that's it. maybe something magic happened- giles:
scene direction: buffy scoffs
buffy: magic! magic's all balderdash and chicanery. i'm afraid we don't know a bloody thing.
scene direction: buffy everyone looking at him
buffy: except i seem to be british, don't i? uh, and a man. with ... glasses.
scene direction: buffy removes glasses
buffy: well, that narrows it down considerably.
scene direction: dawn tearfully to buffy
dawn: i don't like this.
buffy: it's okay, don't worry. we'll take care of each other.
scene direction: buffy brushes hair back from dawn's face. dawn smiles a little.
giles: we'll all get our memory back, and it'll all be right as rain.
spike: oh, listen to mary poppins. he's got his crust all stiff and upper with that nancy-boy accent.
scene direction: spike everyone looking at him
spike: you englishmen are always so...
scene direction: spike pauses
spike: bloody hell!
scene direction: spike ticks off on his fingers
spike: sodding, blimey, shagging, knickers, bollocks, oh god! i'm english!
scene direction: giles puts glasses on
giles: welcome to the nancy tribe.
spike: you don't suppose you and i ... we're not related, are we?
anya: there is a ruggedly handsome resemblance.
scene direction: giles smiles at anya with pleasure.
scene direction: giles to spike
giles: and you do inspire a, um ...
scene direction: giles spike walking out from behind the counter
giles: particular feeling of ... familiarity and ... disappointment.
scene direction: spike walks up to giles, scowling. they look at each other.
giles: older brother?
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: father.
scene direction: spike giles looks outraged
spike: oh, god, how i must hate you.
giles: what did i do?
spike: there's always something, and what's with the trollop?
scene direction: spike indicates anya
anya: hey!
giles: her?
spike: i saw you! sleeping together.
giles: resting together.
anya: look!
scene direction: anya holds up her hand with the engagement ring
anya: it's okay. we're engaged.
scene direction: giles smiling
giles: oh.
anya: it's a lovely ring.
spike: oh, great, a tarty stepmom who's half old daddy's age.
anya: tarty?
giles: old? you little twerp, i'm young enough to still get carded.
willow: carded! driver's licenses!
scene direction: everyone reaches into their pockets and bags to dig out i.d.
scene direction: xander looks at his wallet
xander: it's me! 'alexander harris.' cute picture.
scene direction: xander holds it up to them
xander: hey, i exist.
willow: i'm willow rosenberg.
scene direction: willow looks at xander
willow: heh, willow. funny name.
tara: i think it's pretty.
scene direction: willow smiles at tara
willow: whadda you got?
scene direction: tara holds up her i.d.
tara: tara, and look, i'm a student at u.c. sunnydale.
willow: me too! hey, maybe we're study buddies.
scene direction: willow tara smiles
scene direction: dawn to buffy
dawn: i don't have a wallet.
buffy: don't worry. me neither. but here, look.
scene direction: buffy reaches to dawn's neck. we see that dawn is wearing a necklace with her name on it. buffy holds it in her fingers.
buffy: you're dawn.
scene direction: dawn smiles
dawn: or, umad.
giles: i'm, uh, called rupert giles.
scene direction: anya smiling fondly
anya: rupert.
spike: rupert!
scene direction: spike giggles
giles: you're not too old to put across my knee, you know ... sonny.
scene direction: giles spike still laughing
giles: anyway, what did i call you?
spike: um...
scene direction: spike examines his clothing, finds a label on the inside of his suit jacket.
spike: 'made with care for randy.'
scene direction: spike looks at giles angrily
spike: randy giles? why not just call me 'horny giles,' or 'desperate for a shag giles'? i knew there was a reason i hated you!
giles: randy's ... a family name, undoubtedly.
scene direction: anya fingers something around her neck, goes behind the counter.
willow: oh, hey, i have a name on my jacket.
scene direction: willow takes off jacket to look
willow: harris.
xander: harris? that's my last name. maybe i have a brother and you go out with him.
scene direction: xander willow looking uncertain
xander: or maybe you go out with me.
willow: well, we did wake up all snuggly-wuggly.
scene direction: willow walks closer to him
willow: maybe you're my boyfriend.
xander: either that, or i got one pissed-off brother out there somewhere.
scene direction: xander both smile
anya: i'm anya!
scene direction: everyone looks over at anya by the cash register.
anya: um, this key fits this lock. and, uh, the forms ... next to the cash register say that, uh, rupert and, and anya own the shop together.
giles: this is *our* magic shop?
scene direction: giles goes over to anya
giles: uh, well, that's very, uh, uh, progressive of me.
scene direction: dawn to buffy
dawn: so you don't have a name?
buffy: of course i do. i just don't happen to know it.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: you want me to name you?
buffy: oh, that's sweet, but i think i can name myself.
scene direction: buffy thinks
buffy: i'll name me ... joan. [transcriber's note: great choice!] dawn:
scene direction: buffy makes a face
buffy: ugh!
buffy: what? did you just 'ugh' my name?
dawn: no! i just ... i mean, it's so blah. joan?
buffy: i like it. i feel like a joan.
scene direction: dawn chuckles
dawn: fine, that's your purgative.
buffy: prerogative.
dawn: whatever, joan.
buffy: whatever, umad.
scene direction: dawn and buffy in unison.
dawn: boy, you're a pain in the...
buffy: boy, you're bossy!
scene direction: they look at each other in surprise.
dawn: do you think we're- buffy: sisters?
scene direction: they smile and hug each other.
scene direction: spike to giles
spike: you never showed me affection like that!
scene direction: giles looks confused.
spike: ...i'd wager.
buffy: well, we need to figure out what's going on. we need to get help.
spike: looks like joan fancies herself the boss.
buffy: we have a kid here- dawn: a teenager.
buffy: a teenager. and we have no idea what's wrong with us. i think a hospital's our best bet.
scene direction: anya is fiddling with giles's clothing.
giles: uh, yes, let's, um, let's head out.
scene direction: they all start walking toward the door. xander offers willow his arm, and after a moment she takes it.
buffy: any suggestions on how we're gonna get there?
spike: dad can drive. he's bound to have some classic midlife-crisis transport.
scene direction: spike puts arm around giles's shoulder
spike: something red, shiny, shaped like a penis.
scene direction: they all get to the front door. buffy opens it.
scene direction: the shark demon's two vampire minions stand there, snarling.
scene direction: everyone screams. buffy closes the door and they all huddle on the floor under the window.
buffy: did you guys see that?
spike: vampires!
tara: maybe it's halloween.
dawn: it doesn't feel like halloween.
xander: even if it is, those guys are definitely not kids, and those are definitely not costumes. randy's right. looks like we have vampires.
scene direction: sound of banging on the door.
scene direction: vamp o.s.
vamp: slayer!
xander: they're definitely not knocking for candy.
willow: okay, doors, we need to check to see if there's other doors, a-and make sure they're locked and put large objects in front of them. come on.
scene direction: willow and xander go off toward the back.
buffy: monsters are real. did we know this?
tara: i don't know, but we n-need our memories back. we have to get to a hospital.
scene direction: tara buffy nodding
giles: as, uh, proprietor of a magic shop, i propose we fight them.
scene direction: giles buffy shaking her head
giles: we can use things here in the shop, you know, magic ... tricks or whatever.
scene direction: the vamps continue banging. we see one of them at the window.
vamp 2: send out spike!
giles: they seem to want spikes.
spike: oh!
scene direction: spike goes off, comes back with a handful of stakes.
spike: let's give 'em these.
giles: well done.
scene direction: they all pick up stakes and examine them.
dawn: but wait, what are they going to do with them?
scene direction: vamp o.s.
vamp: slayer, come out and play!
tara: 'slay her,' that's just what they said before.
scene direction: tara horrified
tara: th-th-they're gonna use the spikes to- buffy: to slay someone? a female someone!
scene direction: tara giles looking horrified
tara: who do those jerks think they are?
anya: bloodsuckers. they kill by sucking blood. take it easy, joan.
scene direction: willow o.s.
willow: you guys!
scene direction: willow and xander return.
xander: trap door in the basement, it seems to lead to the sewer.
anya: let's go!
scene direction: they all get up, huddled in a mass together, and start rushing toward the back. the vampires peer in the windows.
scene direction: suddenly the front window busts in and one of the vampires appears. all the scoobies scream and run for the back.
scene direction: the back door bursts open revealing the other vampire. they all scream more and back away.
scene direction: xander drops to his knees, clasps his hands and looks upward.
xander: now i'm not sure what i am so bear with me here.
scene direction: xander in background we see one vamp grabbing buffy, who shrieks
xander: now i lay me down to sleep, uh, shabat israel, uh, om, om.
scene direction: the second vamp goes past xander and grabs spike, slams him up against a bookcase. spike looks scared.
vamp 3: you owe us!
spike: fine! take your damn spikes!
scene direction: spike pulls the stakes from his jacket and tosses them at the vamp. they clatter to the floor. spike tries to go past but the vampire stops him.
vamp 3: don't be stupid.
buffy: get your hands off me, you son of a- we see buffy struggling with the other vamp. he puts his hand over her mouth.
vamp 3: i said you owe us.
spike: who, me?
vamp 3: you've got the boss's kittens.
spike: kittens?!
scene direction: buffy breaks free, knees the other vamp in the groin and punches him. the other scoobies watch in amazement.
scene direction: the first vamp pushes spike back against the wall again. buffy runs over and pulls him away.
buffy: hey! stay away from randy!
scene direction: she stakes the vampire and he dusts. the scoobies and buffy watch in complete wide-eyed amazement.
dawn: whoa!
willow: what did you just do?
buffy: uh ... i...
scene direction: the other vamp slides past and makes for the door as buffy turns to face the scoobies, holding the stake, still looking amazed.
buffy: i don't know.
scene direction: buffy slow smile
buffy: but it was cool!
scene direction: the others slowly begin to smile too.
vamp 1: the boss ain't gonna like this! i'll be back. and i won't be alone!
scene direction: the vamp flees out the front door. spike shuts and locks it behind him, then drops the metal security grate down over the broken window.
scene direction: buffy to others
buffy: i think i know why joan's the boss. i'm like a superhero or something!
scene direction: the others stare at her. xander slumps to the floor in a faint.
scene change: cut to outside. the shark demon paces as the minion vampire talks to him. in background we see other vampires trying to look in the window of the magic shop.
vamp 1: the boys want to taste blood, boss. they wanna break down the door.
shark demon: the boys are barbarians. there's no need to do that. the humans will turn on him soon enough.
scene change: cut to inside. buffy peers out at the demon and vampire activity.
scene direction: shark demon o.s.
shark demon: and if they don't, we'll burn the place to the ground.
scene direction: buffy turns away from the window to face the others.
buffy: okay. i've got a plan.
xander: i'm all ears.
buffy: they seem to want randy. and i seem to be pretty strong. wicked strong. so, you guys go through the sewers to get to the hospital, and randy and i'll give the monsters a run for their money.
spike: that's your plan?
buffy: yes.
spike: right.
anya: i'm not leaving the shop. i have to protect the cash register, and ... do some spells.
giles: oh. well, magic might help, yes, it's worth a shot.
buffy: all right. you work on that then. we need to go. ready, randy?
spike: ready, joan.
scene direction: spike steps forward.
giles: um, son.
scene direction: giles spike stops
giles: come here. um, please.
spike: um...
giles: yes, um...
scene direction: spike goes over to giles and they hug awkwardly, then spike pushes giles away.
spike: right.
giles: good, then.
scene direction: spike and buffy go out the front. willow, xander, tara, and dawn go toward the back. giles and anya stay where they are.
scene change: cut to outside. a couple of vamps stand by the front door talking. buffy and spike emerge. buffy shoves the vamps aside, and she and spike begin to run. the vamps pursue them.
scene direction: one vamp grabs spike by the shoulder and turns him around. spike morphs into vamp face and hits the other one, sending him flying.
scene direction: buffy stops running, looks back.
buffy: randy!
scene direction: spike turns to her
spike: hey, i'm a superhero too!
scene direction: buffy sees his vamp face, looks horrified. she turns and runs off with a scream.
spike: joan, where're you going?
scene direction: spike turns around and a vamp hits him in the face. he goes down.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. spike gets up and confronts another vamp. spike blocks a kick and a punch, punches the vamp. we see several more vamps surrounding spike. he hits one, takes a kick in the stomach, kicks back, punches another vamp, kicks another, grabs a third and throws him into a fourth. all the vamps go down.
scene direction: spike calls
spike: hey! joan! wait up!
scene direction: he runs off.
scene change: cut to the sewer. xander and tara stand at the bottom helping dawn climb down the ladder.
xander: almost there, come on. there we go.
scene direction: dawn reaches the bottom with their assistance.
dawn: thanks.
scene direction: xander and tara help willow climb down next. she reaches the bottom with her hands on tara's shoulders. they look at each other for a moment, then separate.
scene direction: they all begin walking slowly through the sewer.
scene direction: dawn sings
dawn: the ants go marching one by one, hurrah, hurrah. the ants go marching one by- dawn cuts off with a gasp as a vampire appears in front of them. they all scream, turn and run back the way they came. the vampire pursues them.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. giles blows dust off a book while anya is in background looking at another book. giles gets dust on his hands, digs in his pockets looking for something to wipe them with.
anya: this must be nice for us.
giles: sorry?
anya: i mean ... i know there's...
scene direction: giles finds something in his jacket pocket, pulls it out.
scene direction: close shot of giles' plane ticket on "global airlines" going from sunnydale to los angeles and thence to london heathrow.
scene direction: anya os
anya: ...the vampire problem, and our memory loss, and all that, but still...
scene direction: giles stares at the plane ticket, confused.
anya: ...to spend this time together alone? must be nice.
scene direction: giles puts ticket back in his pocket
giles: uh, yes, yes, um, i'm sure that's right. um, which, uh, which book shall we start with?
scene direction: anya takes a book from the shelf, brings it over to him.
scene direction: anya smiling
anya: this is the book for us.
scene direction: giles takes book
giles: oh, good. does it focus on mind control, or-or memory loss?
anya: not exactly, i just, um ... my intuition tells me this is the book.
scene direction: anya giles stares at her
anya: and i figure being a magic shop owner and a natural at the supernatural, i should trust my intuition.
giles: y-yes, fine, but as you recall,
scene direction: giles caressing her face
giles: i too am a magic shop owner.
anya: true, but my intuition says that you're not so much the magic guy and more of a paperwork type.
scene direction: anya giles frowns
anya: okay, here we go.
scene direction: anya sets the book on the table and opens it to a random page.
giles: but you don't even know- anya:
scene direction: giles reads from book
giles: bara bara himble gemination.
scene direction: a bunny suddenly appears on the table in front of anya. she screams and grabs giles.
scene change: cut to spike running down the street, still in game face.
spike: wait up!
scene direction: he runs up to buffy, grabs her arm. she turns, grabs his arm with her other hand, flips him over onto the ground. she kneels, straddling him and holding him down.
spike: bloody hell, what are you doing?
scene direction: buffy staring at him, realizing
buffy: you don't know who you are.
spike: right, none of us do, and we're being chased by- buffy: you're a vampire!
scene direction: spike shocked
spike: how can you say - i, me, a vampire? no.
buffy: check the lumpies. and the teeth.
scene direction: spike puts his hand up to his face, feels his forehead and teeth. buffy sits up but remains straddling him. he lifts his head to look at her.
buffy: i kill your kind.
spike: and i bite yours.
scene direction: spike drops his hand from his face
spike: so how come i don't wanna bite you?
scene direction: spike buffy frowns in confusion
spike: and why am i fightin' other vampires?
scene direction: spike gets a look of revelation on his face, lifts himself up onto his elbows.
spike: i must be a noble vampire.
scene direction: spike buffy looks dubious
spike: a good guy. on a mission of redemption. i help the hopeless.
scene direction: spike chuckles
spike: i'm a vampire with a soul.
scene direction: buffy frowning
buffy: a vampire with a soul?
scene direction: buffy beat
buffy: oh my god, how lame is that?
scene change: cut to the magic shop. close on giles.
giles: perhaps we should try another book.
scene direction: anya o.s.
anya: no!
scene direction: reveal anya standing on a chair holding the book close to her face. we see that there are bunnies everywhere - on the floor, the counter, the bookshelves.
anya: this book made the little fluffers, and this book's gonna send 'em back. i've got it this time, okay.
scene direction: anya reads
anya: 'himble abri, abri voyon.' another bunny appears by giles's feet.
giles: yes, dear.
scene direction: anya looks alarmed.
scene direction: cut back to the street. spike paces back and forth while buffy stands rolling her eyes.
spike: i'm a hero really. i mean, to be cast such an ugly lot in life and then to rise above it. to seek out better, nobler things. it's inspirational, isn't it? and the two of us...
scene direction: spike gestures from buffy to himself
spike: natural enemies, thrown together to stand against the forces of darkness. utter trust. no thought of me biting you, no thought of you staking me.
buffy: depends on how long you keep on yapping.
scene direction: sound of growling. they both turn to see four vampires striding toward them. spike and buffy move closer to each other, watching with alarm.
scene change: cut to the sewers. the four scoobies running. tara is in the lead. she looks to her left, sees a space behind some pillars, runs over to hide there. the others follow.
scene direction: the vampire runs past, not seeing them.
scene direction: tara peeks out.
tara: come on. this way. up the ladder.
scene direction: they run to a ladder, climb up to an elevated tunnel leading to a large pipe. a metal grate blocks the entrance. they move it aside, climb through. xander closes the grate behind him while the others huddle around the corner in the pipe.
scene direction: xander whispers
xander: he's coming!
scene direction: they all huddle quietly as the vampire goes past again, growling.
scene direction: willow and tara are huddled together with their faces close to each other. they look at each other, look away awkwardly, but continue sneaking looks at each other.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. giles is sitting on a chair.
giles: clearly that is not a helpful book, *darling.*
scene direction: we see that the shop is even more full of bunnies, and also a green cloud that hovers in the air by the ceiling. anya stands on the round table with her head almost in the green cloud. the bunnies crawl around sniffing the floor.
giles: come down, and we will go about fixing this in a sensible fashion!
anya: sensible! you think it's sensible for me to go down into that pit of cotton-top hell, and let them hippity-hop all over my vulnerable flesh?
giles: fine, then just stay up there and keep making bunnies! that's a capital plan!
anya: what capital? i never know what you're talking about. loo, shag, brolly, what the hell is all that?
giles: what? there's no way that you could remember me saying any of those words.
anya: oh, bugger off, you brolly.
scene change: cut to the street. spike and buffy are fighting the other vamps. buffy fights two at once, kicks one away, takes a kick in the face from the other. she kicks the other one back.
buffy: note to self: learn to duck.
scene direction: she moves forward.
scene direction: one of the vamps has spike by the arms and is holding him in place while another vamp hits him. then the second vamp kicks spike and he breaks free, goes down, gets up and hits the first vamp.
scene direction: we see the shark-headed demon watching.
scene direction: spike ducks a punch, kicks, then head-butts another vamp, removes a scarf from around his own neck and uses it like a whip on the fallen vamp.
scene direction: buffy kicks over a mailbox, picks up its wooden post and uses it to stake a vamp as he runs at her. she turns and thrusts it at another vamp, who knocks it out of her hands. buffy blocks a couple of punches, punches him a couple of times, kicks him, but he grabs her foot, hits her, then flips her over backward. she lands on her feet, ducks a kick and kicks the vamp away.
scene direction: spike holds one vamp by the arm while punching another, then shoves them into each other.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. giles is sword-fighting with an animated skeleton.
scene direction: giles yells
giles: get a different book!
scene direction: giles grunts
giles: put that book down, do you hear? not ... that...
scene direction: giles ducks a sword thrust
giles: book!
scene change: cut to the sewers. the others are still sitting in their hiding place. xander and tara are peering out at the sewer tunnel. willow sits opposite dawn.
willow: how you doin', dawn?
dawn: uh, i'm okay. it's scary ... but, weirdly? kind of familiar.
scene direction: willow frowns
willow: i know what you mean.
dawn: how are you?
willow: a little confused. i mean, i'm ... all sweaty ... and trapped, no memory, hiding in a pipe from a vampire...
scene direction: she pauses, looks over at the others, then back at dawn, still frowning.
willow: and i think i'm kinda gay.
scene direction: dawn looks surprised.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. shot of the counter with the cash register on it. giles's head peeking over the counter from behind. he looks around cautiously.
scene direction: growling noises from the main area of the shop (which we don't see). giles starts, pulls his head back down. we see anya huddling behind the counter beside him.
scene direction: giles whispers
giles: look what you've done, you lunatic woman!
scene direction: giles looking through a pile of books in his lap
scene direction: anya whispers
anya: don't blame me, you snobby, snotty, thinks he's so great kind of jerk ... and i feel compelled to take some vengeance on you.
scene direction: she hits him over the head with her book.
scene direction: giles still whispering
giles: ow! god, no wonder i'm leaving you!
anya: what?!
giles: look!
scene direction: giles pulls out the plane ticket
giles: one-way ticket to london, and out of this engagement!
scene direction: anya upset
anya: of all the nerve!
scene direction: anya pulls off her engagement ring and throws it at giles. it bounces onto the floor and rolls out in front of the counter, with a tinkly metal noise. the growling noises continue.
anya: now look at what you've done! that thing is gonna eat my ring.
scene direction: giles looks embarrassed, continues looking through his book.
scene direction: cut back to the sewer. xander peeks out through the grate as the vampire begins to climb toward it.
vamp 1: i smell fear ... and it smells good.
scene direction: xander, tara, willow, and dawn begin fleeing through the pipe. the vampire goes to the closed grate, peers in to the pipe, retreats back into the sewer.
scene direction: xander emerges into the sewer from another hole in the pipe. he peeks around a corner and the vampire punches him. xander grabs the vamp, who pushes him away. xander punches the vamp a couple of times, then the vamp blocks a punch and throws xander to the ground.
scene direction: cut back to the magic shop. giles and anya still huddled behind the counter. giles reads from the book.
scene direction: giles whispers
giles: fatas ... venga ... mata ... waray!
scene direction: blue light flashes through the store, and the growling noises stop. giles and anya look up, then get up to peek out at the store. they both stand up. the bunnies and monster and green cloud are all gone.
giles: oh ... that's better.
scene direction: anya rushes out from behind the counter, picks up her ring.
anya: oh, thank goodness.
scene direction: anya puts it back on
scene direction: giles comes out from behind counter
giles: i'm so sorry, dear.
anya: no. rupy, i'm sorry. you were right. that was the wrong book.
giles: oh ... um ...
scene direction: giles stutters, removes his glasses
giles: yes, it was. but i'm, i'm still sorry.
anya: don't leave me.
giles: oh, anya.
scene direction: he walks over to her and kisses her, bending her over backward.
scene change: cut to the sewer. tara, willow, and dawn look out of the pipe. tara and willow jump down to the ground, look around.
scene direction: the vampire appears and growls at them. willow gasps, grabs tara and they fall to the ground, willow on top of tara.
scene direction: the crystal falls out of willow's pouch and onto the ground.
scene direction: xander o.s.
xander: hey! over here, big guy!
scene direction: willow and tara gaze into each other's eyes.
scene direction: dawn ducks back into the pipe as the vampire turns toward xander.
scene direction: xander o.s.
xander: check out this throbbing jugular!
scene direction: the vampire goes over to xander and tries to grab him. xander punches him.
scene direction: dawn hops down from the pipe, looks over and sees the vampire punching xander in the stomach. dawn bends down, picks up a piece of wood from the ground.
scene direction: the vampire punches xander again in the stomach and then the face. he throws xander over a piece of pipe. xander lands on his back on the ground.
dawn: alex!
scene direction: dawn throws the piece of wood to xander, who catches it and uses it to stake the vamp as he attacks. xander and dawn stare as the vamp turns to dust.
scene direction: willow and tara remain lying on the ground together, their faces inches apart. tara reaches up and brushes hair away from willow's face. they smile slightly. willow bends down as if to kiss tara.
scene direction: xander gets up, groaning. he walks forward.
scene direction: close shot of xander's foot coming down on the crystal. it gives off a green light as it smashes.
scene direction: xander looks down at it, looks dizzy for a moment.
scene direction: willow and tara pause before actually kissing. willow gets off of tara and they both sit up. tara gives willow an angry look.
scene direction: willow looks over at the crystal. shot of the broken pieces of crystal lying on the ground.
scene direction: cut back to the magic shop. giles and anya still kissing. suddenly they stop and their eyes widen.
scene direction: cut back to the street. buffy and spike still fighting vampires. spike holds a vamp by the arms as buffy kicks him, then punches him and he falls to the ground.
buffy: don't mess with joan the v- buffy suddenly pauses, stands still with a small frown as her memories return.
scene direction: a hand appears and punches her in the face. she goes down.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. buffy lies on the ground panting. a vampire stands over her. he kicks her in the stomach, twice. she gasps in pain.
spike: buffy! buff- another vampire attacks spike. spike punches him.
scene change: cut to the sewer. tara stands up, still giving willow a look of disgust. willow stays sitting, looking up at her. slowly willow looks down, feels her belt pouch and finds it empty.
scene direction: dawn goes to stand by xander, both watching willow. they look down at the broken pieces of crystal. all stare at willow.
scene direction: suddenly xander gives a little laugh. everyone looks at him.
xander: sorry, i just got back the memory of seeing king ralph.
scene direction: willow continues looking shocked and tara looking angry.
xander: we should get back.
scene direction: xander and dawn start walking. tara looks down at willow. willow stands up and looks at her. tara looks away, doesn't meet her eyes.
scene direction: willow looks sad, starts to follow xander and dawn.
scene direction: tara begins to cry, turns and follows them as well.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. shot of giles holding a broom, sweeping.
giles: well, this place certainly needs a good tidying.
scene direction: pan across to anya vigorously scrubbing the round table.
anya: oh, yes. yes. yes.
scene direction: wide shot of the two of them cleaning. a large bookcase separates them from each other.
scene direction: cut back to the street. buffy lies on the grass holding her stomach and groaning. fight noises continue.
scene direction: spike slams two vampires together. they both go down.
spike: from dust...
scene direction: he reaches into his pocket, pulls out a stake, thrusts downward at one vamp.
spike: ...to dust.
scene direction: he stakes the second vamp.
scene direction: the shark-headed demon walks up behind him.
shark demon: you're an odd duck, mister spike. fighting your own kind ... palling around with a slayer.
scene direction: shark demon spike turns to face him
shark demon: and whoa, that suit! chutzpah must be your middle name.
scene direction: shark demon chuckles weakly
shark demon: uh, hey, look, um ... about our little debt problem, it's okay, i don't need the kittens.
scene direction: spike grabs the demon by the front of his suit, pulls him close.
spike: you'll get paid. i'm no welsher.
shark demon: right, sure.
scene direction: shark demon spike lets him go
shark demon: you're good for it, i know that. i'm just going to, uh ... yeah.
scene direction: he clears his throat, walks away quickly.
scene direction: spike turns, sighs, walks over to buffy.
scene direction: buffy still lies there holding her stomach, panting. spike's hand comes into shot, reaching out to her. she looks at it.
spike: you all right?
scene direction: buffy gives him an angry look, gets to her feet without taking his hand. she scowls at him, walks past him and away.
scene direction: spike watches her go, sighs.
scene change: cut to the bronze. michelle branch is onstage singing her song "goodbye to you".
scene direction: of all the things i believed in i just wanna get it over with tears warm behind my eyes, but i do not cry counting the days that pass me by buffy sits at the bar, staring vacantly in front of her.
scene direction: i've been searchin' deep down in my soul words that i'm hearin' are starting to get old buffy looks on the verge of tears again. cut back to the band onstage.
scene direction: feels like i'm starting all over again the last three years were just pretend and i said...
scene change: cut to the summers house. tara takes a pile of clothing from the cabinet, turns, looks around.
scene direction: goodbye to you goodbye to everything that i knew tara walks over to the bed, puts the clothes in a cardboard box sitting there. she glances toward the door, starts to cry.
scene change: cut to a long shot of willow sitting on the floor in buffy's room with her knees pulled up to her chest.
scene change: you were the one i loved the one thing that i tried to hold on to cut to a closer shot of willow, then even closer. she stares ahead sadly.
scene direction: cut back to tara folding and packing her clothes. guitar music continues.
scene direction: cut back to the bronze. close shot on the singer as she starts the second verse.
scene change: i used to get lost in your eyes and it seems that i can't live a day without you fade to giles sitting on the plane surrounded by other passengers. he stares off in front of him.
scene direction: closin' my eyes, you chase my thoughts away to a place where i am blinded by the light but it's not right goodbye to you cut back to willow still sitting, crying.
scene direction: goodbye to everything that i knew you were the one i loved the one thing that i tried...
scene direction: cut back to buffy in the bronze.
scene direction: ...to hold on to spike walks up beside buffy. she looks over at him. he looks at her questioningly.
scene direction: buffy turns her face away from spike, breathes deeply as if trying to hold back tears.
scene direction: spike looks frustrated, walks away. fade back to the band onstage.
scene direction: and it hurts to want everything and nothing at the same time i want what's yours and i want what's mine the song pauses for a moment, then resumes.
scene change: i want you but i'm not giving in this time goodbye to you cut to the summers house. tara walking down the stairs holding a box. the front door of the house is open. she walks out onto the porch.
scene direction: goodbye to everything that i knew dawn is on the porch leaning against a post. tara puts her box on top of another, reaches out to dawn. but before she can touch her, dawn turns and runs back inside.
scene direction: you were the one i loved the one thing that i tried to hold on to tara watches dawn go, looks sad.
scene change: cut to willow still sitting and crying.
scene change: the one thing that i tried to hold on to cut to giles on the plane.
scene change: cut to the bronze. pan across various couples walking around, holding hands, talking, etc.
scene direction: goodbye to you pan around the stairs and we discover spike and buffy standing underneath the stairs kissing.
scene direction: goodbye to everything that i knew buffy pulls back for a moment, then resumes kissing spike.
scene direction: you were the one i loved...
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon. the en 