scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: episode opens on feet running through the graveyard, night.
scene direction: we see a very large (both tall and chubby) vampire running steadily between the headstones.
scene direction: then we see spike running after him.
scene direction: then we see tara running after them, and giles behind her, carrying an axe.
scene direction: they come up to a fence and the vampire is gone. spike yells in frustration.
spike: i'm never gonna get anything killed with you lot holding me back.
scene direction: tara panting
tara: i thought the big ones were supposed to tire more easily.
spike: no, that's over-the-hill shopkeepers.
scene direction: giles leaning against a gravestone, panting
giles: i'm fine. i just need to ... to die for a minute.
scene direction: spike to tara
spike: it was that powder you blew at him made him rabbit off.
tara: it's sorbis root, it was supposed to confuse him, but ... it just kinda made him peppy.
scene direction: spike rolls his eyes.
tara: it's not supposed to mix with anything, you think he might be taking prescription medication?
scene direction: spike sarcastic
spike: yeah, that must be it.
giles: good god, i hope he doesn't try to operate heavy machinery.
scene direction: giles and spike laugh.
spike: yeah, we could all be in real-
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: guys, heads up.
scene direction: they all look up.
scene change: cut to a large crypt. zoom up and we see willow standing on top of it. zoom in on her.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: the vampire's circling back towards you, six o'clock.
scene direction: cut back to the other three looking around for the vamp.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: try to drive him back towards the van elton crypt.
scene direction: spike telepathically
spike: van elton.
scene direction: tara aloud
tara: is that the one with the cute little gargoyles?
scene direction: the vampire runs back across their field of vision, sees them, turns and starts back the way he came.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: left, make him go left!
scene direction: giles throws his axe. it thuds into a tree right by the vampire's face. the vamp turns and heads left. tara and spike look at giles, then they all run after the vampire.
scene direction: the vampire winds up at a dead-end, turns to go back. suddenly a fist comes out and punches him in the face. he falls down.
scene direction: a pair of feet walk over and stand by the prone vampire's feet. he stares up at the person.
scene direction: pan up to reveal buffy.
buffy: big, fast, and dumb. just the way i like 'em.
scene direction: the vampire sits up and she kicks him in the face, thrusts out with her stake, but he grabs her arm, hits her with his other arm, and gets up.
scene direction: tara and giles appear, grab the vamp's arms and hold him while spike punches him in the face twice. then spike moves for another punch but the vampire head-butts spike and he staggers back.
scene change: cut to xander and anya running through another part of the graveyard.
xander: sounds like the other units are engaged.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: xander, anya, stop!
scene direction: xander and anya stop running, look startled.
xander: great googly-moogly, willow, would you quit doing that?
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: i told you i was going to get the lay of the land.
xander: but not the lay of my brain.
anya: it's kind of intrusive. you could knock first or something.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: xander-
xander: i know, i know, i don't have to talk when i answer you. but i saw "the fury," and that way lies spooky carnival death.
scene direction: we see a vampire hiding behind a tombstone a few feet away from xander and anya.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: xander! vampire! other side of that tomb. you can get the jump on him if you go the other way.
xander: why didn't you just say so?
scene direction: xander and anya head around the side of the tomb.
scene direction: cut back to the other battle. the big vampire throws both tara and giles off him. buffy runs at him, tries to punch but he blocks, picks her up over his shoulders, swings her around so that her feet kick spike in the face. then he throws her toward tara.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: tara, down!
scene direction: tara ducks and buffy goes flying over her, lands against a wall.
scene direction: giles grabs the axe, gets up and swings at the vampire, who grabs it and spins giles around, pins him against the iron fence with the axe handle on his throat.
scene direction: giles choking
giles: spike!
scene direction: spike jumps on the vamp's back but he's so big he barely notices. he shrugs spike off a couple of times. spike steps back, sighs.
giles: spike!
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: what are you doing? help him!
scene direction: spike lighting a cigarette
spike: i did.
scene direction: we see that the back of the vampire's shirt is on fire.
scene direction: the fire spreads up to the rest of his shirt. he lets go of giles and staggers back, bursts completely into flame and dusts. giles puts his arm over his face as the dust showers over him.
scene direction: spike takes a drag on his cigarette, saunters over to giles and holds out his hand. giles takes it and spike helps him up.
giles: you might have let me in on your plan while he throttled me.
spike: oh, poor watcher. did your life pass before your eyes? cuppa tea, cuppa tea, almost got shagged, cuppa tea?
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: guys, help xander and anya over by the anderson tomb.
scene direction: they head off.
scene change: cut to xander being held in a headlock by the other vampire.
anya: xander!
scene direction: anya lunges with a stake but the vamp merely steps aside. she swings again, misses. the vamp hits her and she falls down.
scene direction: the vampire continues growling and struggling with xander.
buffy: i got it!
scene direction: buffy kicks the vampire, and he goes down, letting go of xander who lands on the grass beside anya. the vamp gets up, blocks a kick, punches buffy, they exchange a few more punches and kicks. he gets her on the ground, picks her up over his head, and spike comes in and punches him in the stomach. the vampire drops buffy, and spike kicks him. he shoves spike away, and spike lands beside xander and anya.
scene direction: buffy kicks the vamp onto the ground, then stakes him as he starts to sit up.
scene direction: buffy triumphantly
buffy: that'll put marzipan in your pie plate, bingo!
scene direction: shot of the entire gang (spike, tara, xander, anya, willow, giles) staring at her as they help each other up.
scene direction: she smiles and walks over to them.
scene direction: spike to willow
spike: what's with the dadaism, red?
tara: yeah, she says that pie thing every time she stakes a vamp now.
willow: i-i don't know, i was trying to program in some new puns and i kinda ended up with word salad.
scene direction: buffybot brightly
buffybot: i think it's funny.
scene direction: they all roll their eyes and start walking.
willow: it's a glitch, i'll fix it.
giles: we just can't have her messing up in front of the wrong person. or the wrong thing. we, we need the, the world and the underworld to believe that buffy is alive and well.
willow: and i will therefore fix it. i got her head back on, didn't i? and i got her off those knock-knock jokes.
buffybot: ooh, who's there?
xander: you know, if we want her to be exactly-
spike: she'll never be exactly.
xander: i know.
tara: the only really real buffy is really buffy.
giles: and she's gone.
scene direction: they all walk on, leaving the buffy bot behind as she has stopped walking.
buffybot: 'if we want her to be exactly she'll never be exactly i know the only really real buffy is really buffy and she's gone' who?
scene direction: she continues walking after them.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on exterior shot of the summers house, day.
willow voiceover: where's my clog?
scene change: cut to inside. willow is in joyce's room, crouched on the floor looking under the bed.
willow: i think there's a clog-eating monster under the bed.
scene direction: willow gets up
willow: it's really those lesser-known monsters that make living in sunnydale so hard.
scene direction: we see tara looking in the closet. she turns to watch willow. willow goes around to look under the other side of the bed.
tara: i believe that that is a dawn monster. she borrowed them yesterday.
willow: dawnie?
scene direction: willow knocks on dawn's door, which is ajar
willow: hey, you up?
scene direction: dawn's bed is piled with clothes but she's not there. willow turns away with a sigh.
tara: you okay?
scene direction: tara they walk out into the hall
scene direction: willow nods
willow: besides terror about today and a general feeling of impending doom, swell.
tara: breakfast will make all things better.
scene direction: they stop walking and tara puts hands on willow's shoulders.
scene direction: willow smiles, takes tara's hands
willow: ooh, pancakes could go in bellies.
scene direction: they kiss, then tara goes back down the hall and willow knock on the bathroom door, which is also ajar.
willow: dawnie?
scene direction: the door swings open more and we see dawn brushing her teeth.
willow: hey, you! today's the big day, huh? kinda day that makes you wanna return clogs, don't you think?
scene direction: dawn very garbled through her toothbrush
dawn: i didn't take your clogs.
scene direction: willow sighs, rolls her eyes, turns away.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. buffybot is making peanut-butter and jelly sandwiches. tara is in the background by the stove. willow enters.
willow: morning.
scene direction: buffybot cheery
buffybot: morning!
willow: i was thinking we could go over your programming again.
tara: again? you've done enough, sweetie. she's either ready to face this thing or she's not.
scene direction: dawn enters, sits at the counter with a small smile.
tara: oh, um, here's some juice, and...
scene direction: tara gives dawn a glass of orange juice
tara: pancakes are on the way. funny shapes or rounds?
dawn: rounds are fine. uh, what's up with the mega-witches?
tara: oh, i don't know if you can call us mega, willow maybe-
dawn: no, i mean ... who's gonna eat all that?
scene change: we see that buffybot has made a huge pile of sandwiches. actually, several huge piles. tara grabs the bot's hands.
tara: oh! oops, um ... she wanted to help, and i got her started, but then i forgot to un-start.
scene direction: the bot nods understanding.
scene direction: xander enters.
xander: house of chicks, relax. i am a man, and i have a tool.
scene direction: they all look at him. he holds up his toolbox.
xander: tools. lots of plural tools.
scene direction: xander dawn grins
xander: in my, uh ...
scene direction: xander pats toolbox
xander: toolbox.
scene direction: xander sees the sandwiches
xander: ah! sandwiches. excellent. men like sandwiches.
scene direction: buffybot smiles and gives him a stack of sandwiches.
willow: help yourself. really.
scene direction: willow xander eating a sandwich
willow: so what brings you so early, your macho-ness?
xander: i brought that soldering wire you wanted for buffybot's tune-up.
scene direction: tara serving pancakes to dawn
tara: you got funny shapes anyway, sorry.
scene direction: the phone rings. buffybot looks excited.
buffybot: i'll get it!
willow, tara, dawn: no!
scene direction: willow, tara, dawn all move to intercept her
dawn: um ... it could be my dad.
scene direction: dawn to willow
dawn: he said he'd call today.
buffybot: i'll just say hello. he's my biological ancestor.
scene direction: willow into phone
willow: hello? hey, anya.
scene direction: willow the bot looks disappointed, goes back over toward xander
willow: really? that's fantastic!
scene direction: willow to others
willow: uh, anya found that thing, for tonight.
scene direction: xander looks nervously at buffybot
xander: yeah? great.
scene direction: willow listens
willow: and you're her sweet cookie-face.
xander: i go by many names.
scene direction: xander the bot looks at him in confusion
dawn: well, what's tonight?
tara: oh, just a scooby meeting. spike'll be here with you.
willow: you know, buffy ... bot ... maybe you should let the machine - uh, the other machine, answer the phone from now on. okay?
buffybot: is my phone manner not correct?
tara: it's perfect. it's just ... we can't take the chance that mr. summers might talk to you and know something's wrong.
xander: see, if he thought the real buffy was gone, he could take dawn away.
dawn: and i wanna stay here, with you and willow and tara. understand?
scene direction: buffybot big smile
buffybot: i do! i want you to stay here as well. you're my sister!
scene direction: the bot goes around the counter and hugs dawn, a little too hard. dawn looks surprised, but pleased.
scene direction: xander and tara watch with concern. willow looks uncomfortable.
xander: so. excellent. we're agreed. sit your robo-self down so we can get to work.
scene direction: xander the bot sits next to dawn
xander: we gotta fix up those fighting skills pronto.
willow: actually, we have bigger worries than her fighting skills today.
tara: way bigger.
xander: i guess. depends on how highly you prize punning.
willow: i'm serious, xander. buffybot is about to face her most dangerous challenge ever.
scene change: cut to exterior of the sunnydale junior high. a big sign reads, "welcome to parent teacher day."
scene direction: various tables are set up with displays, people walking around. dawn and buffybot walk among the crowd. buffybot looks around at everything with great interest. dawn just looks nervous.
dawn: okay. so we'll make a quick lap so people can see you're here.
scene direction: the bot stops to look at a display. it's a table-top model of a city, made with paper cups and cardboard and such.
dawn: then we'll-
buffybot: what is this?
scene direction: we see a young male teacher sitting behind the display. he looks up.
dawn: oh, um, this is our city of the future.
scene direction: dawn we see a boy dawn's age on the other side, listening in
dawn: i made the hover-cars. they're orange-juice cans, see?
buffybot: they're very nice.
scene direction: buffybot frowns
buffybot: but i-i still don't understand.
teacher: we're reading walden. this is, uh ... a kid's version of a utopian society. you'll notice there are no schools but an extraordinary number of pizza parlors.
scene direction: teacher dawn grins
buffybot: i don't think i know of a breed of humans this small. who's going to live here?
scene direction: the boy gives dawn and buffybot a scornful look.
scene direction: dawn gives a fake laugh. the teacher looks uncertain, but he laughs too.
dawn: ha ha ha! oh ... god, she's always like this. ha ha! come on, wacky buffy.
scene direction: dawn takes the bot's arm
dawn: see ya, mr. davis.
scene direction: the teacher watches them go with some confusion. sound of a school bell ringing.
scene change: cut to a classroom. a bunch of parents and kids sit in chairs while a woman stands at the front talking to them.
ms. lefcort: as you can see, we've provided the best in progressive learning. but we can't teach your children unless you do. as parents, you have a responsibility to create the right attitude. to teach your child what school can mean.
scene direction: buffybot raises her hand.
ms. lefcort: ms. summers.
scene direction: the bot stands up. dawn looks very nervous.
buffybot: school is where you learn.
scene direction: beat. dawn continues looking anxious.
ms. lefcort: exactly.
scene direction: dawn is very relieved. buffybot sits.
ms. lefcort: parents let kids focus on school as a social experience rather than a learning experience. we want you to get your kids just as excited about education as they are about the lunch hour.
buffybot: i helped make lunch today.
scene direction: ms. lefcort uncertain
ms. lefcort: oh.
scene direction: buffybot cheery
buffybot: yes, before school. peanut butter and jelly. i don't eat, but dawn takes one every day.
scene direction: a father in the back row speaks up.
dad: tell me about it.
scene direction: dad everyone turns to look at him
dad: my kid's been brown-bagging it even though i pay for the lunch program.
scene direction: a mother on the other side joins in.
mom: it's true. something has to be done about the quality of the food.
scene direction: all the people in the room murmur and chatter in agreement. buffybot smiles happily. dawn looks at her and can't help smiling a little too.
scene change: cut to overhead shot of downtown sunnydale. cars and people go by.
scene change: cut to closer shot of the front of the magic shop.
scene change: cut to inside. the camera follows xander as he carries a large box into the back office area. anya is dusting merchandise while giles sits in the background doing paperwork.
giles: anya, this register report for january looks a bit off.
scene direction: giles anya turns to him
giles: pull the files again.
scene direction: anya puts down her duster and walks quickly over to him, frowning anxiously.
anya: are you mad at me?
scene direction: giles confused
giles: mad? no, i'm-i'm-
anya: well then why are you torturing me? you know, i used to punish people like this when i was a demon.
scene direction: anya giles rolls his eyes
anya: i made them double-check spreadsheets for all eternity.
giles: i'm sorry if you resent my authority, but i won't feel comfortable leaving here until i know that absolutely everything-
scene direction: anya grabs a small statue from the desk
anya: you're taking the ramadan effigy?!
scene direction: giles rolls his eyes again
giles: it's not inventory, it's my personal collection.
scene direction: giles takes the statue
scene direction: anya indignant
anya: oh, huh. aren't you mister dicey semantics. so, what, you think you can just take anything you want?
scene direction: she grabs the statue back from giles. he looks angry, tries to grab it back, and they both pull at it.
anya: give it!
giles: no, you give it!
scene direction: anya begins smacking his hand with her free hand.
giles: ow! ow!
scene direction: he tries to fend off her smacking hand with his other hand. in the other room, xander hears them fighting and comes to look.
giles: ow!
xander: okay, when *i'm* marveling at the immaturity ...
scene direction: xander they pause and look at him
xander: be scared.
scene direction: they stop fighting but both still hold the statue.
xander: anya, giles is gonna leave the store to you when he goes. what more do you want?
giles: i'm not *leaving* the store to anyone. i'm going to england. i'm not dead, i'm still a partner.
scene direction: giles yanks the statue away from anya
scene direction: anya sullen
anya: silent oversees partner.
xander: who you should be very nice to, unless you want to end up working at video hut.
scene direction: giles gives anya a tentative smile. she gives him a big fake smile and turns away. as soon as her back is to giles she drops the smile and scowls, walking to the other room. xander follows, grabs her arm.
xander: what are you doing? what kind of gratitude is that?
scene direction: anya quietly
anya: i know, i know. it's just ... he keeps saying he's going, and then he doesn't. and i keep almost being in charge, but then i'm not. and maybe he shouldn't be going at all, but we can't talk about that.
scene direction: anya agitated
anya: and it all just leaves me with this stress and bossiness stored up, and it just ... leaks out.
xander: just give it time, ahn. this is hard for all of us. just ... be patient.
anya: i *was* being patient, but it took too long. i mean, i-i miss buffy. i do. but life shouldn't just stop because she's gone. i'm sick of waiting to take over here, and i'm sick of waiting to tell everyone about us.
scene direction: xander looks nervously over his shoulder, lowers his voice.
xander: we've talked about this. we can't announce our engagement while things are so up in the air.
anya: why not? it's happy news. happy news in hard times is a good thing.
xander: it is, but ... if things go as planned, everything could be different.
scene direction: xander anya sighs
xander: let's just hold on.
anya: you've been saying that all summer.
xander: please, anya. we'll know more after we talk to willow and tara tonight.
anya: fine, whatever. just remember that this whole marriage thing was your stupid idea. i didn't ask to be all crazy.
scene direction: she walks off. xander watches her go.
scene change: cut to exterior of the summers house, night.
scene change: cut to inside. dawn comes out of the kitchen holding a cup and walks down the hall.
dawn: so my homeroom teacher, ms. lefcort, was like, "your sister's an example to us all." hmm! she wanted to make it national buffy day.
scene direction: she puts the glass on the coffee-table and sits on the sofa next to spike. there's a pizza box on the coffee-table, and a plate with a half-eaten slice of pizza.
spike: makes sense.
dawn: it does?
spike: yeah, she responded to buffybot because a robot is predictable. boring. perfect teacher's pet. that's all schools are, you know. just factories, spewing out mindless little automatons.
scene direction: he sees dawn's raised eyebrows.
scene direction: spike quickly
spike: who go on to be ... very ... valuable and productive members of society, and you should go.
scene direction: spike quieter
spike: because buffy would want you to.
scene direction: beat. they both look pensive.
dawn: check. one mindless automaton coming up.
scene direction: they sit quietly on the sofa for a moment.
spike: so, uh, what do you fancy, bit, uh, game of rummy?
scene direction: spike gets up
dawn: well, uh, willow and tara said they'd be back early.
scene direction: dawn spike goes to a side table, opens a drawer
dawn: you don't really have to hang. i mean, if you're bored.
spike: i'm not, and yeah, i do.
scene direction: spike gets a pack of cards out of the drawer, pulls a chair over to the coffee table opposite dawn.
dawn: but i'm fine alone. it's not like anyone's coming after me. i'm not the key.
scene direction: dawn spike sets the chair down
dawn: or if i am, i don't open anything any more. it's over. remember?
scene direction: spike softly
spike: i'm not leaving you here by yourself, so forget it.
scene direction: he sits in the chair.
dawn: well, i'm just saying-
scene direction: spike slams the cards down hard on the table. dawn jumps.
scene direction: spike not looking at her
spike: no. i'm not leaving you ... to get hurt.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: not again.
scene direction: they look at each other. spike points to the cards.
spike: now deal.
scene direction: dawn picks up the cards.
scene change: cut to the street, night. a young woman closes up a shop and turns to walk down the street, putting keys in her purse. it's dark and very quiet. she pauses, looks behind her, walks on. she pauses again, looks back again, resumes walking very quickly.
scene direction: she enters an alley and a vampire grabs her from behind. she screams. the vampire pulls her back against him and prepares to bite.
scene direction: buffybot os
buffybot: don't be scared.
scene direction: the vampire looks up in surprise.
buffybot: i'm going to kill him.
vamp: slayer!
buffybot: you can run away now.
scene direction: the girl does just that.
scene direction: the vamp tries to edge away too. buffybot rolls her eyes.
buffybot: not you!
scene direction: she runs after him. he pushes a dumpster into her path. she vaults over it and lands on top of him, knocking him down. they both get up and she brings him down again with a circle-kick. he gets up and she punches him, kicks him down again. he crawls toward an empty glass bottle, grabs it and hits buffybot in the face with it. she stumbles back and the vamp gets up.
scene direction: the broken glass has torn a hole in the bot's forehead and we can see sparks flying around it.
vamp: you're ... you're ... you're, you're a machine!
scene direction: buffybot smiles
buffybot: thank you!
scene direction: he scrambles to his feet and begins backing away.
buffybot: stop!
scene direction: she walks forward, directly into a stack of large kegs. she backs up a few steps and walks into them again.
scene direction: the vamp watches, begins to smile. she continues walking into the kegs again and again.
buffybot: vampires ... beware.
scene direction: grinning, the vamp turns and runs off. the bot continues walking into the kegs.
scene change: cut to overhead shot of sunnydale, night.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of xander's apartment building.
scene change: cut to inside. willow is holding a small urn and gazing at it. tara sits beside her.
tara: the urn of osiris.
scene direction: willow looks up
willow: you really found it.
scene direction: anya sits opposite willow
anya: yeah. it wasn't easy. i went through every supplier the magic box has.
scene direction: willow alarmed
willow: you used a magic box supplier? what if giles finds out?
anya: he's too busy not leaving to pay attention to me.
scene direction: anya we see xander standing beside anya
anya: besides, i ended up getting it on ebay.
tara: you found the last known urn of osiris on ebay?
anya: yeah, from this desert gnome in cairo. he drove a really hard bargain, but i finally got him to throw in a limited edition backstreet boys lunchbox for a -
scene direction: xander coughs. anya pauses. xander looks nervous.
anya: ...a friend.
scene direction: tara looks at xander with a little smile.
xander: so you got your somber on, will, is the urn not up to spec?
scene direction: willow studies the urn with a frown, doesn't seem to have heard. she looks at tara.
willow: it's the one.
scene direction: willow puts it down
willow: which means it's time.
scene direction: xander anxious
xander: it's time?
scene direction: xander sits
xander: like, *time* time? with the...
scene direction: xander vague hand gestures
xander: timeliness?
scene direction: anya quietly
anya: are you sure?
willow: i am.
tara: mercury's in retrograde, and we have...
scene direction: tara to willow
tara: do we have everything?
scene direction: willow nods
willow: just about.
scene direction: willow gets up, goes over to another table and begins putting things in a bag.
xander: but why the sudden rushy-rush? i mean, did the bot blow our cover at school?
tara: no, she did great, she impressed all the teachers.
xander: and they still thought it was buffy?
scene direction: willow turns back to them
willow: tomorrow night, we'll meet back here.
scene direction: xander jumps up
xander: whoa! let's apply the brakes and check the rear- and side-view mirrors here.
scene direction: they all look at him.
scene direction: xander more calmly
xander: this is deep stuff, willow. we're talking about raising the dead.
willow: it's time we stop talking. tomorrow night ... we're bringing buffy back.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: fade back in on the same scene.
scene direction: xander nervous
xander: tomorrow? i don't know.
scene direction: anya gets up to stand beside him
anya: um, di-discovery channel has monkeys. and our tape machine's all wonky.
willow: guys, i need you on board here.
xander: it's just ...
scene direction: xander fidgets nervously
xander: it feels wrong.
tara: it is wrong.
scene direction: tara willow looks surprised
tara: it's against all the laws of nature, and practically impossible to do, but it's what we agreed to. if-if you guys are changing your minds-
willow: nobody's changing their minds. period.
xander: excuse me? who made you the boss of the group?
anya: you did.
tara: you said willow should be boss.
scene direction: tara willow moves away
anya: and then you said "let's vote," and it was unanimous...
tara: ...and then you made her this little plaque, that said "boss of us," you put little sparkles on it...
xander: valid points, all. but we ... i mean...
scene direction: xander comes out from behind the coffee-table, goes over to willow who is again at the other table putting stuff in a bag.
xander: we were just talking then.
willow: xander, i can do this, i promise. but not without you.
anya: should we maybe tell giles? you know, now that we're really ready? it's not like he's going anywhere. ever.
willow: no. no one else can know. not giles, not spike, not dawn.
scene direction: willow quietly
willow: they might not understand.
tara: what if something does go wrong?
willow: i'm telling you it won't.
xander: scenario -- we raise buffy from the grave, she tries to eat our brains. do we, a) congratulate ourselves on a job well done-
willow: xander, this isn't zombies.
anya: zombies don't eat brains anyway unless instructed to by their zombie masters. a lot of people get that wrong.
willow: this isn't like dawn trying to bring mrs. summers back, or anything we've dealt with before. buffy didn't die a natural death. she was killed by mystical energy.
tara: which means we do have a shot.
willow: it means more than that.
scene direction: willow to xander
willow: it means we don't know ... where she really is.
xander: we saw her body, will. we buried it.
willow: her body, yeah. but her soul ... her essence ... i mean, that could be somewhere else. she could be trapped, in-in some sort of hell dimension like angel was.
scene direction: willow tearfully
willow: suffering eternal torment, just because she saved us, and i'm not gonna let ... i'm not gonna leave her there.
scene direction: willow intensely
willow: it's buffy.
scene direction: xander looks at her for a long moment.
xander: what time do we meet?
scene change: cut to willow entering the summers house. she sees spike and the buffybot in the living room.
scene direction: buffybot shouts
buffybot: willow!
scene direction: the bot walks toward willow, knocking over a side table with a vase on it. spike catches the vase. willow comes into the room as the bot walks into a wall.
willow: what happened, where's dawn?
scene direction: willow grabs the bot and pulls her away from the wall, giving spike a questioning look.
spike: upstairs, in bed. but the bot here seems to have got into a scrape while she was on patrol.
scene direction: willow positions the bot in front of her and looks at the cut on her forehead.
buffybot: i think my feet are broken.
willow: eh, looks more like a short in the navigational system.
scene direction: she steers the bot over to the sofa and sits her down while talking to spike.
willow: can you get me a flashlight? it's in the, uh, kitchen.
scene direction: spike heads for the kitchen
spike: she wanted to go out and look for you again, but i figured there are enough things in sunnydale that go bump in the night.
scene direction: spike exits
scene direction: willow sits facing the bot
willow: good thinking.
buffybot: but my homing device locates you when i am injured. i am programmed to go to you.
scene direction: willow nods
willow: right, i know. still, i think just this once, it was a good idea to stay put.
scene direction: willow lifts the bot's shirt and peels back the skin over her stomach, revealing various wires and circuitry.
willow: spike was right.
scene direction: willow pokes at the bot's innards
scene direction: the bot looks up and smiles at spike as he comes back in with the flashlight.
buffybot: sorry i questioned you, spike.
scene direction: buffybot spike looks surprised
buffybot: you know i admire your brain almost as much as your washboard abs.
scene direction: buffybot big smile
scene direction: spike looks pained.
scene direction: spike quietly to willow
spike: i told you to make her stop doing that.
willow: i did. i mean, i thought i got all that stuff out of the program.
scene direction: we see that willow has the bot hooked up to a laptop computer.
spike: well, you've got her opened up, fix it.
scene direction: willow typing
willow: sure. i mean, i have a lot of work here, but i'll see what i can do.
scene direction: focus on the bot's face watching with interest as spike crosses into the frame and off to the left. willow doesn't see him moving.
willow: can you shine the flashlight right here?
scene direction: willow turns but spike is gone.
willow: spike!
scene direction: we see spike opening the front door. he grabs his coat and leaves.
buffybot: did i say something wrong?
scene direction: willow typing
willow: no, it's not your fault.
scene direction: buffybot pensive
buffybot: i think spike stopped liking me.
willow: that's not true, he-he thinks you're swell.
buffybot: then how come he never looks at me any more? even when he's talking to me.
scene direction: beat. the bot seems anxious for willow to explain.
scene direction: willow nervous
willow: he just gets cranky, the way vampires do. now, just relax. i am gonna make you good as new.
scene direction: the bot continues to stare at willow with a small frown. willow continues typing.
willow: i promise.
scene change: fade to exterior of the house, night.
scene change: cut to willow and tara asleep in joyce's bed, snuggled up together.
scene change: cut to dawn in bed, wide awake, staring at the ceiling. after a long moment, she gets up.
scene change: cut to dawn walking down the hall, pushing open the door to buffy's room. the bot lies on buffy's bed, eyes open, with some wires coming out of her body and some equipment blinking and beeping steadily.
scene direction: dawn walks farther into the room.
scene direction: pan across what looks like a battery or electric generator on the floor at the foot of the bed. wires extend out of it and into the bot's stomach. she lies on her back with her shirt pushed up. her eyes are open.
scene direction: dawn goes over and lies down on the bed beside the buffybot, cuddling up against her. the bot doesn't move, just lies there. dawn closes her eyes.
scene change: cut to aerial shot of sunnydale, day.
scene change: cut to the workout room. buffybot is practicing with giles. he has padded targets on both hands and she punches them in a rapid sequence.
giles: that was splendid.
scene direction: giles she stops hitting
giles: now ... try it again ...
scene direction: giles panting
giles: only this time, remember your breathing.
scene direction: the bot looks confused for a moment, then takes a deep breath and blows it out through her lips in one long breath as she hits the targets again and again.
giles: no, uh, that's good, but, uh ...
scene direction: giles we see anya come in and stop in the doorway, watching
giles: ...think of the breath as chi. air as a, a life source.
buffybot: i don't require oxygen to live.
giles: of course, strictly speaking, but-
anya: um ...
scene direction: anya walks into the room
anya: maybe you should stick to the standard drill. you know, you don't want her to blow another gasket.
giles: i'm testing her responses after her injury. i see no harm in imparting a little eastern philosophy.
anya: well, i just think that, the concept of chi might be a little, you know, hard for her to grasp.
scene direction: giles drops his arms, in exasperation, then puts hands on hips.
anya: you know, she's not the descendant of a long line of mystical warriors. she's the descendant of a toaster oven.
giles: yes, well, i appreciate your input, anya, but i think buffybot has responded nicely to our sessions.
scene direction: buffybot smiles happily. giles lifts his hands and she prepares to resume.
anya: well, you're the boss.
scene direction: anya to herself
anya: still.
scene direction: anya turns and walks out. giles drops his hands again, annoyed.
buffybot: would you like to test me again?
giles: no, perhaps we should call it a day. your ... your responses are fine.
scene direction: he takes off the targets, puts them down, picks up a bottle of water. the bot stands in place and watches him. giles turns back and sees her looking at him.
giles: perhaps anya's right. perhaps i am trying to teach you as if you were...
buffybot: human?
scene direction: giles uncomfortable
giles: yes.
buffybot: i like your teachings. every slayer needs her watcher.
giles: i'm not so sure about that.
scene direction: buffybot frowns
buffybot: what do you mean?
giles: nothing.
scene direction: giles wipes his face with a towel, looks at the bot again, sighs.
scene direction: giles looking away
giles: i just can't help but wonder if ... she would have been better off without me. buffy.
buffybot: i don't think that's true. you were very helpful to her.
scene direction: giles laughs
giles: right. yes, i was a perfect watcher. i did what any good watcher would do. got my slayer killed in the line of duty.
buffybot: oh, that wasn't your fault.
giles: of course not. that's how all slayer/watcher relationships end, isn't it?
scene direction: he puts his glasses on, turns to face the bot again, calmer now.
giles: she's gone. i did my job.
scene direction: buffybot frowns innocently
buffybot: well, then why are you still here?
scene direction: giles looks at her sadly.
scene change: cut to demons on motorcycles. they drive up to a large building with a lot of other motorcycles parked outside. loud rock music.
scene change: cut to inside. it's a bar. many large, muscular, leather-clad demons are walking around, drinking beer, etc. several of them wear leather jackets with the word "hellion" on the back. there are also some humans. pan across to the bar.
vamp: so i got her cornered in this alley, see...
scene direction: we see the vamp who injured the buffybot. he sits at the bar talking to one of the leather demons (mag).
scene direction: mag skeptical
mag: you get the slayer cornered.
vamp: yeah. i figured it's my duty. she's a menace to our society. so we fight, and i'm like, pow pow pow!
scene direction: vamp makes punching gestures
vamp: and i got her on the ropes.
scene direction: mag turns and grabs him by the throat, growling.
mag: you're lying to me.
scene direction: vamp high, choked voice
vamp: i swear on all that's unholy! you haven't even heard the best part. i cut her, right? and she's -- i don't know, some kind of machine. she's not human!
scene direction: mag looks into his eyes for a moment, lets him go.
mag: you're high.
vamp: i'm tellin' you, it wasn't even the slayer, man. it was like a trick.
scene direction: vamp mag looks at him
vamp: a robot.
scene direction: the vamp starts to drink his beer, but mag grabs him again and hustles him across the room. he pushes through the crowd of demons to where the head demon, razor, is sitting in a booth, surrounded by his cronies. razor is very large and ugly.
razor: what's with the blood rat?
scene direction: mag to the vampire
mag: talk!
scene direction: vamp nervous
vamp: okay, uh, so, i was over in sunnydale, minding my own beeswax, when i see the slayer-
scene direction: mag shakes him
mag: the part about the robot.
vamp: we fought, right? and i was like all over her,
scene direction: vamp punching gestures
vamp: boom boom boom...
mag: he says the slayer's been replaced by some kind of machine.
scene direction: the vamp stops making punch noises. razor looks interested.
vamp: a robot, yeah! and i kicked her synthetic ass. you shoulda seen the sparks-
scene direction: razor gets up, towers over the vamp.
razor: you tellin' me there's no slayer in sunnydale?
scene direction: longer shot of them from across the room, other demons watching.
vamp: that's what i'm saying, they got some kind of decoy standing in for her.
scene direction: vamp false bravado
vamp: town is wide open.
mag: nowhere like the hellmouth for a party. there's all kinds of bad in that place.
scene direction: razor nods thoughtfully. he and his cronies all laugh. the vamp laughs too, pats razor on the chest.
vamp: i guess with your muscle, uh, you could own it in no time.
scene direction: vamp nervous chuckle
vamp: hey look, i know you guys don't usually let vampires join the gang, and i got the whole
scene direction: vamp air quotes
vamp: sunlight issue. but i was thinking, you know, as thanks for the 4-1-1, you could let me go-
scene direction: razor grabs him by the neck.
scene direction: shot of the vamp's headless body hitting the floor and dusting.
scene direction: razor brushes dust off his hands.
razor: i'll think it over.
scene direction: he looks around. all his demon buddies are watching.
razor: let's ride!
scene direction: they all cheer and turn to go.
scene change: cut to the demons getting on their bikes and riding off in a cloud of dust.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on a peaceful pond surrounded by grass and trees. it's a bright sunny day. soft meditative music.
willow: adonai, helomi, pine.
scene direction: pan across to discover willow kneeling on a blanket on the grass. she pours something from a small pot onto the ground.
willow: adonai, helomi, pine. the gods do command thee from thy majesty.
scene direction: willow puts the lid on the jar, puts it down
willow: o mappa laman, adonai, helomi. come forward, blessed one. know your calling.
scene direction: she looks around.
scene direction: a young deer comes around a tree and toward her.
willow: come forward, blessed one.
scene direction: the fawn walks over to her. willow pets it gently, puts her arm around its back.
scene direction: shot of a large knife lying on the blanket. willow's hand grabs it and thrusts.
scene direction: intercut shots of the fawn's legs struggling with shots of willow's distressed face. after a moment the struggling stops.
scene direction: we don't see the dead fawn but we see the blood all over willow's hands. she looks ready to cry.
scene direction: willow panting
willow: accept our humble gratitude for your offering.
scene direction: willow puts knife down
willow: in death ... you give life.
scene direction: willow voice breaking
willow: may you find wings to the kingdom.
scene direction: she looks around, breathing raggedly.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. xander and tara sit at the round table reading. the door jingles as willow enters, wearing different clothing. anya appears from the side.
tara: hey. you're late.
willow: oh.
scene direction: willow too casual
willow: i, uh, had to get that thing.
scene direction: willow goes to the counter, holding a small leather bag.
xander: giles isn't around, you can dump the cryptic.
scene direction: willow nervous
willow: the last spell ingredient.
xander: okay, right. what is vino de madre anyway?
scene direction: willow walks over to them
willow: wine of the mother. kind of ... black market stuff.
tara: black market, you-you didn't tell me that. you shouldn't have gone alone, it could have been dangerous.
willow: sorry. i didn't ... i was careful.
anya: well, it must be something pretty intense. the black market's all baby teeth and spooky fluids.
scene direction: anya moves toward counter
scene direction: willow moves toward bookshelves
willow: all i know is we have to have it to finish the spell, so, it's good stuff in my book.
scene direction: willow takes a book from the shelf, returns to sit at the table
willow: how come you guys are here anyway? i thought we weren't gonna meet till later.
xander: oh, we were. it just felt weird hanging out on our own.
tara: it's better if we stay together.
scene direction: willow takes tara's hand
willow: aw, you got butterflies, baby?
tara: more like bats.
anya: y-you wanna look at the money? i find it always calms me.
scene direction: xander smiles fondly.
tara: that's okay, thanks.
willow: you tell those bats that everything is gonna be all right. i promise. we couldn't be more prepared.
tara: i know, i just wish it was time, i-
scene direction: we see anya behind the counter picking up a piece of paper, reading it with a frown, coming out from behind the counter.
scene direction: tara os
tara: -i can't stand worrying about it anymore.
anya: um ... well, it's your lucky day then. i have something that will distract you.
scene direction: everyone looks up. anya gives the paper to xander.
willow: what?
scene direction: xander reads
xander: "i've gone. not one for long good-byes."
scene direction: xander shot of willow and tara looking dismayed
xander: "i thought it best to slip out quietly. love to you all, giles."
scene change: cut to the airport. giles sits in the terminal, reading a book, with a small bag on the floor beside him. he stops reading, looks off into space.
scene direction: willow os
willow: you really think we'd let you get away with that?
scene direction: the gang, plus dawn, walks up to him.
scene direction: giles smiles
giles: i was trying to avoid a scene, really.
scene direction: we see that dawn is holding a greeting card. willow produces a large sign with the words "bon voyage giles!" inside a heart, with balloons attached to the corners.
willow: like we'd make a scene.
scene direction: giles quietly
giles: not you. me.
scene direction: they all look like they don't know what to say. anya steps forward.
anya: um, we, uh, brought you some lovely parting gifts.
scene direction: anya holds something out
anya: it's american. get it? apple pie?
scene direction: it's a packaged snack pie such as you might get at mcdonald's. giles takes it with a smile.
anya: to remind you of all the good food you won't be eating.
tara: a-and a monster, sort of a sunnydale souvenir we thought.
scene direction: tara has a small rubber monster attached to her finger. basically a thimble with arms and a scary face. she bounces it up and down.
tara: grr! argh!
scene direction: giles smiles
giles: thank you.
scene direction: giles takes the monster.
xander: and i wanted to buy you a can of old english 800, 'cause, you know, england, and you, and ... because at the time it sounded really funny. but the guy who lives in the box in front of the store, he, uh, wouldn't buy it for us.
scene direction: xander smiles nervously. dawn steps forward.
dawn: we got your presents at the gas station.
scene direction: dawn sits beside giles
dawn: we were kind of in a hurry.
scene direction: giles continues smiling nervously. dawn looks uncertain, then hands him the card.
dawn: um, we made this in the car. that's why the letters are all shaky.
scene direction: they all look on anxiously as giles opens the card and reads it.
scene direction: giles touched
giles: this is, uh ... impossible, really.
willow: we just wanted you to know that ... we'll miss you. uh, but we'll be okay.
scene direction: willow softly
willow: we'll miss you, but,
scene direction: willow very softly
willow: we'll be okay.
anya: i'll take really good care of your money.
scene direction: giles laughs
giles: yes, i have no doubt.
p.a. announcer: ...passengers, flight 3982, leaving for los angeles, and continuing to london. rows 20 through 30...
scene direction: giles gets up, gathers his stuff.
giles: that's me.
willow: now? we just made it.
giles: just, yes.
scene direction: they all look at each other.
giles: well, if we're going to do this, let's do it properly.
scene direction: he puts down his bag, goes over to xander. they hold out hands toward each other, look awkward for a moment, then hug.
scene direction: giles turns away from xander, and anya grabs giles tightly. he hugs her back. then he hugs tara, then dawn.
giles: i'm just a phone call away ... if you need anything.
scene direction: giles holds dawn's face in his hands
giles: you must promise me.
dawn: i do. i promise.
scene direction: giles turns to willow. she smiles nervously.
giles: willow. i don't know where to start.
scene direction: giles they hug
scene direction: willow tearful
willow: well, maybe you shouldn't.
scene direction: willow lets him go
willow: i'm trying to be stiff-upper-lippy.
giles: right, right.
scene direction: giles removes his glasses
willow: well, you should get going.
scene direction: willow taps him on the shoulder
willow: don't you have a life or something?
scene direction: giles replaces glasses
giles: um, well, i suppose that's the question really.
scene direction: tara puts her arm around willow as giles gathers his stuff up again.
giles: just, uh ... be careful. please.
scene direction: he gives them a last look, turns toward the gate.
scene direction: pan across the scoobies standing in a row watching him go. giles gives his ticket to the flight attendant and goes through the door.
scene change: cut to a shot of a plane flying overhead.
scene direction: willow os
willow: there he goes.
scene direction: we see the scoobies standing on the sidewalk looking up. willow still holds the big sign. tara and dawn have their arms linked.
xander: it's a good thing. my face was getting sore from all that faux smiling.
willow: it was right, though, wasn't it? giving him the no-tears sendoff? i mean, we don't want him goin' off all worried about us.
anya: he'd still be all worried, just ... eight hours ahead.
willow: what's he gonna do over there by himself?
scene direction: willow they all start walking
willow: i mean, he never talks about people from england. what if he's lonely?
tara: he won't be lonely. he used to live there before, remember?
dawn: and i'm sure we'll talk to him, right? it's not like he's-
tara: we'll call him tomorrow, how 'bout that?
scene direction: tara puts arm around dawn's shoulder
tara: see how his flight was? yeah?
scene direction: tara and dawn walk on ahead as the other three pause.
scene direction: xander to willow
xander: can you believe the timing? i mean, he's leaving right when we're ready to...
scene direction: xander willow glances nervously toward dawn
xander: ...do the thing tonight.
scene direction: willow still looking at the sky
willow: i know, i had hoped we'd figure it out before he, uh ... before he left.
anya: maybe we should have told him. i mean, what if it works?
scene direction: willow still looking at the sky
willow: he'll come back.
scene direction: beat. xander fidgets.
xander: it'll be dark soon.
willow: yeah, we should get dawn home. i want to go over everything one more time. nothing can go wrong tonight.
scene direction: she walks on. xander and anya follow.
scene direction: lingering shot of the front of the airport building.
scene change: fade to aerial shot of sunnydale, twilight. the sun is just setting.
scene change: fade to a curvy two-lane highway on a hill. the demons on motorcycles come roaring around a bend and down the road. they go past a sign reading "welcome to sunnydale" as we see the town spread out below.
scene change: fade to the forest, night. tara, willow, xander, and anya are standing in a semicircle beside buffy's grave. willow is directly at the foot of the grave. xander and tara hold lit candles.
willow: does everybody have their candles?
anya: i'm trying, my lighter won't stay lit.
scene direction: anya flicking lighter continuously
willow: well, hurry, it has to-
tara: what time is it?
scene direction: xander checks watch
xander: a minute till midnight.
willow: c'mon, anya, do you have it?
scene direction: anya gets the lighter lit, lights her candle
anya: i got it, i got it. i got it.
willow: okay. start the circle. now.
scene direction: they all kneel, holding their candles, except willow who holds the urn of osiris.
scene direction: lingering shot of the headstone.
scene direction: willow produces a small jar containing (presumably) the fawn's blood, and pours it into the urn. tara and xander look nervous.
willow: osiris, keeper of the gate, master of all fate, hear us.
scene direction: she dips her finger into the urn and marks her forehead and both cheeks with the blood.
willow: before time, and after. before knowing and nothing.
scene direction: she pours the contents of the urn onto the earth.
willow: accept our offering. know our prayer.
scene direction: suddenly she jerks backward, panting, and her arms go out at her sides. deep ugly gashes appear on her arms.
xander: willow!
scene direction: xander reaches for her
tara: no!
scene direction: tara stuttering
tara: she t - she told me ... she'd be tested. this is supposed to happen.
scene direction: willow louder
willow: osiris! here lies the warrior of the people. let her cross over.
scene direction: willow winces in pain. we see blood running from the cuts on her arms, and round shapes moving under her skin. she gives a little moan of pain.
scene direction: the round things move up her arms and over her chest toward her neck.
xander: she needs help!
tara: xander, she's strong! she said not to stop, no matter what. if we break the cycle now, it's over.
scene direction: they all watch anxiously. willow continues breathing heavily. suddenly they hear a loud rumbling and they all look around nervously.
anya: oh god, what is that noise?
scene change: cut to main street sunnydale. people scream in fear as the demons on motorcycles roar through the downtown area. the rumbling noise (motorcycle engines) continues. the demons drive over cars, through curbside restaurant tables, between pedestrians. at least one demon grabs a woman and pulls her onto his bike. we see them throwing garbage cans through windows, hitting cars with baseball bats, etc.
scene direction: a demon lights a molotov cocktail and throws it through a store window. pedestrians continue screaming and running away.
scene direction: another demon throws another flaming bottle directly at the camera. blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: fade in on the scene by the grave. willow still kneels with her arms held out, panting. the others watch with concern.
scene direction: willow yelling
willow: osiris, let her cross over! aah...
scene direction: willow makes choking noises as we see the round things under her skin moving up her neck.
tara: oh my god, oh my god.
scene direction: willow leans forward putting her hands on the ground, gagging. a snake head appears in her open mouth. shot of her fingers clutching the grass. the snake slithers out her mouth and onto the ground. the others look horrified.
scene direction: tara anxious
tara: it's a test. it's a test. willow...
scene direction: linger on willow leaning over the ground with her mouth still open.
scene change: cut to spike sitting in the summers living room, in the dark in front of a television. he looks across at the sofa. shot of dawn asleep on the sofa. spike looks back at the tv.
scene direction: sound of motorcycle engines rumbling, tires screeching, crashing noises. spike jumps up and goes to the window, looks out.
scene direction: we see the demons riding on people's front yards, throwing trash around, etc.
scene direction: dawn comes up behind spike, peers out the window.
dawn: what's going on?
scene direction: spike whispers
spike: stay away from the window.
scene direction: spike takes dawn's shoulders and moves her away from the window. he walks toward the foyer. dawn follows.
dawn: what is it, what's happening?
spike: just do as i say.
scene direction: he checks to make sure the front door is locked, takes dawn's shoulders again.
spike: i'm going to check the rest of the house.
scene direction: he moves off.
scene direction: spike os
spike: don't move!
scene direction: dawn stands where he placed her, looking around nervously.
scene change: cut to downtown sunnydale. the demons are still running rampant, and various things are burning. a demon is smashing the windows of a car with the logo "espresso2u.com" on it. he turns and goes off, waving his weapon. sounds of demons yelling, people screaming.
scene direction: we see a couple of demons looking through a woman's purse.
scene direction: mag is taking stuff out of a store window display where the glass has all been smashed.
scene direction: buffybot os
buffybot: that doesn't belong to you.
scene direction: mag turns and sees buffybot standing there with hands on hips.
buffybot: put it back.
scene direction: mag opens his mouth and lets out a high-pitched squeal.
scene direction: all the other demons turn to look. buffybot looks around nervously as the demons begin to converge on her.
scene direction: razor comes right up to her as the others form a circle around them.
razor: slayer. i've been hearing interesting things about you.
buffybot: yes. i am interesting.
scene direction: buffybot looks around
buffybot: these your friends?
razor: they're my boys, yeah.
buffybot: good. now tell them to get back on their loud bicycles and go back wherever they came from.
razor: or what? you'll electrocute us?
scene direction: he punches her in the face. she staggers back into a couple of other demons, who catch her and hold her arms.
razor: hold her.
scene direction: the bot struggles as razor comes forward and lifts his hand, revealing a set of ugly claws. then an even uglier set of serrated metal claws pop out at the ends of his fingers.
scene direction: he reaches out and swipes at the buffybot. the claws rip slashes in her shirt and shoulder. blue sparks sizzle from the wound.
razor: you're nothing but a toy. a pretty toy. wanna play?
scene direction: he moves a little closer and the bot knees him in the groin. as he doubles over, she goes into a backflip, kicking him in the face with both feet and breaking free from her captors.
buffybot: i would, but you've injured me. i have to return to willow.
scene direction: she turns and delivers spin-kicks to two of the demons, lays out four or five more of them in quick succession with mostly kicks and a few punches. she leaps over the prone bodies and runs off. razor lifts up onto an elbow.
razor: get her!
scene direction: a few more demons try to stop buffybot but she punches them out of the way. the rest of the demons that she already fought all get up and get on their bikes, and tear off after her.
scene direction: cut back to the grave. anya, xander, and tara continue staring as orange light swirls around willow, who is kneeling up again, panting loudly.
willow: osiris, release her!
scene direction: buffybot runs up behind tara.
buffybot: willow! i need service!
scene direction: sound of motorcycles revving. the bot looks behind her and runs off as the motorcycle demons ride up.
scene direction: the demons ride around the bot, trapping her. they also ride around the others. anya yelps. anya, xander, and tara get up and clutch each other, looking around at the demons.
scene direction: willow is still encased in a tube of reddish-orange light, panting. the demons ride around and around.
tara: willow!
scene direction: one of the demons runs his bike over the urn of osiris, shattering it.
scene direction: willow screams
willow: no!
scene direction: the red light dissipates and willow falls to the ground.
tara: willow!
scene direction: tara runs forward but mag rides in front of her, cutting her off. she screams and moves back.
mag: look what i found!
scene direction: the demons continue riding circles around buffybot.
scene direction: xander sees an opening and dashes forward, grabs willow and pulls her out of the way just as mag rides his bike through the spot where willow was lying.
scene direction: xander yells to anya and tara
xander: take off! go! go!
scene direction: tara and anya run off.
scene direction: xander lifts willow by the shoulders and pulls/shoves her into the underbrush.
scene direction: tara and anya run through the forest together with mag pursuing them. he grabs anya as he rides by, pulls her onto his bike.
tara: anya!
scene direction: tara stops running.
tara: dissolvo!
scene direction: a ball of blue light flashes from tara to the motorcycle, knocking anya free. she hits the ground and rolls as the motorcycle continues on. tara runs to anya, helps her up and they continue running.
scene change: cut to xander in a different part of the forest, carrying willow. he stops, puts her down with her back against a tree. she begins to regain consciousness.
xander: willow. willow, are you okay?
scene direction: willow weakly
willow: did it work?
scene direction: xander shakes head
xander: i'm sorry.
scene direction: willow passes out again.
scene direction: xander kneels there on the ground with willow lying across his lap. he looks around nervously. we can still hear the motorcycles all around.
scene direction: pan down to the ground, into blackness. fade in on a wrinkled, desiccated hand. pan up across a body encased in black clothing. the orange mist from before swirls around the head, which is a skull with much of the skin rotting off and the hair decaying.
scene direction: as the mist moves around the body, the eyeballs reappear, the skin and hair repair themselves, and it resolves into buffy, wide-eyed and gasping. she's inside her coffin. she looks around, panting, with an expression of extreme fear.
scene direction: blackout.