scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open in buffy's bedroom, morning. the words "once more, with feeling" splash across the screen in the style of an old movie musical. pan down to reveal an old-fashioned alarm clock, the kind with actual bells. the clock hits 7 and the alarm goes off.
scene direction: reveal buffy in bed, rolling over to glare at the clock. she reaches over, picks it up, looks at it.
scene direction: overture. the overture music is a medley of the musical themes from the rest of the episode.
scene direction: begins with willow walking across her bedroom, then she turns and goes back the way she came. grabs a sweater from a chair and exits into the bathroom. as she goes, we see tara making the bed. she finds the herb that willow used to do the "forget" spell. tara picks it up, sniffs it, smiles.
scene direction: pan to the hallway. dawn runs out of her room and over to the bathroom door. she knocks on the door while jumping from foot to foot as if she has to pee. willow comes out of the bathroom brushing her hair. dawn rushes into the bathroom.
scene direction: pan across the hallway again to reveal buffy still lying in bed, awake.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. overture music continues. xander and anya are looking at a bridal magazine, smiling and talking (we don't hear their dialogue). a customer comes over and anya escorts her toward the cash register.
scene direction: pan across to dawn standing by the bookshelves looking at a book. giles comes over and takes the book away. dawn looks annoyed. giles gestures with the book and she walks off.
scene direction: pan to the round table where we see willow and tara looking at a book together and taking notes. pan further and we see buffy sitting next to tara, sketching on a pad.
scene direction: giles comes over and holds a large axe in buffy's line of sight. then he gestures with his head toward the back and walks away. buffy puts down her sketch pad, gets up and follows giles toward the workout room, taking off her sweater as she goes.
scene direction: end overture.
scene change: cut to the graveyard, night. buffy walks along, looking around. suddenly she begins to sing!
scene direction: song "alive" begins.
buffy: every single night, the same arrangement / i go out and fight the fight. / still i always feel this strange estrangement / nothing here is real, nothing here is right.
scene direction: a vampire appears from behind a gravestone, rushes at buffy. she spins him around, continues singing.
buffy: i've been making shows of
scene direction: buffy punches
buffy: trading blows / just hoping no one knows
scene direction: buffy kicks, grabs vampire and throws him behind her
buffy: that i've been going through the motions / walking through the part.
scene direction: buffy pulls a stake from her jacket pocket. the vamp attacks her from behind and she stakes him without looking back.
buffy: nothing seems to penetrate my heart.
scene direction: she resumes walking and singing.
buffy: i was always brave, and kind of righteous. / now i find i'm wavering.
scene direction: we see two vampires and a demon gathered near a tree. there's a person tied to the tree. the vampires see buffy and attack.
buffy: crawl out of your grave, you'll find this fight just
scene direction: buffy punches a vampire
buffy: doesn't mean a thing.
scene direction: buffy punches second vamp
vamp 1: she ain't got that swing.
scene direction: the vamp punches buffy and she goes down. a sword is stuck in the ground beside her. she lies there on her back. sound of crickets chirping.
buffy: thanks for noticing.
scene direction: she continues lying there as the two vamps and the demon begin to do a dance.
vamps and demon: she does pretty well with fiends from hell / but lately we can tell.
scene direction: buffy gets up and grabs the sword.
vamps and demon: that she's just going through the motions.
demon: going through the motions.
scene direction: buffy pulls vamp 1 away, cuts off his head with the sword.
vamp 2: faking it somehow.
scene direction: buffy pushes him aside, stabs the demon.
demon: she's not even half the girl she-
scene direction: demon looks down at his wound
demon: ow.
scene direction: the demon falls over. buffy continues walking, holding the sword.
buffy: will i stay this way forever? / sleepwalk through my life's endeavor?
scene direction: she uses the sword to cut the ropes that are tying the person to a tree. the person comes around the tree trunk and we see it's a very good-looking man.
handsome guy: how can i repay-?
buffy: whatever.
scene direction: she turns away, tosses the sword aside and continues walking.
buffy: i don't want to beeeeee...
scene direction: buffy walks up onto a raised platform ringed by statues, stops
buffy: going through the motions / losing all my drive. / i can't even see / if this is really me / and i just want to be...
scene direction: vamp 2 attacks her and she stakes him. he explodes into dust which forms an artful cloud, obscuring buffy from view, then clears as she sings the final word.
buffy: aliiiiiive.
scene direction: end of song "alive." wide aerial shot of buffy standing amidst the gravestones.
scene change: cut to magic shop, day. the bell jingles. buffy enters.
scene direction: giles o.s.
giles: good morning, buffy!
scene direction: we see willow and tara standing by the counter. giles in background.
willow: oh, hey, did dawn get off to school all right?
scene direction: buffy distracted
buffy: what? oh, uh, yeah. i think so.
scene direction: buffy walks farther into the store. we see xander sitting at the round table holding a donut in each hand.
xander: respect the cruller. and tame the donut!
scene direction: anya passes by en route to the counter.
anya: that's still funny, sweetie.
scene direction: anya goes behind the counter. giles looks in the box of donuts, takes one out, takes a bite.
buffy: so, uh, no research? nothing going on? monsters or whatnot?
scene direction: giles and xander shake their heads "no," continue eating donuts.
buffy: good! good.
scene direction: buffy awkwardly
buffy: uh, so, did anybody ... uh ... last night, you know, did anybody, um ... burst into song?
scene direction: giles stops chewing. everyone stares at buffy for a moment.
xander: merciful zeus!
scene direction: willow, tara, and anya rush over. everyone talks at once.
willow: we thought it was just us!
giles: well, i sang but i had my guitar at the hotel...
tara: it was bizarre. we were talking and then it was like-
buffy: like you were in a musical!
tara: yeah!
giles: that would explain the huge backing orchestra i couldn't see and the synchronized dancing from the room service chaps.
willow: we did a whole duet about dish washing.
anya: and we were arguing and, and then everything rhymed and there were harmonies and the dance with coconuts.
willow: there was an entire verse about the cous-cous.
xander: it was very disturbing.
scene direction: everyone is talking at once.
scene direction: giles to buffy
giles: what did you sing about?
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: i don't remember. but i-it seemed perfectly normal.
xander: but disturbing. and not the natural order of things, and do you think it'll happen again?
giles: i don't know. i should look into it.
willow: with the books.
tara: do we have any books on this?
xander: well, we just gotta break it down. look at the factors before it happens again. because i for one-
scene direction: giles begins to sing, interrupting xander.
scene direction: song "i've got a theory" begins.
giles: i've got a theory / that it's a demon / a dancing demon! / no, something isn't right there.
willow: i've got a theory / some kid is dreamin' / and we're all stuck inside his wacky broadway nightmare.
scene direction: tara doing "jazz hands".
xander: i've got a theory we should work this out.
anya, tara, willow, xander: it's getting eerie, what's this cheery singing all about?
scene direction: xander jumps up
xander: it could be witches! / some evil witches!
scene direction: xander sees willow's and tara's expressions
xander: / which is ridiculous, 'cause witches they were persecuted, / wicca good and love the earth and woman power / and i'll be over here.
scene direction: xander sits
anya: i've got a theory! it could be bunnies!
scene direction: silence. the others just stare at her. sound of crickets chirping.
tara: i've got a...
scene direction: suddenly the tune changes to a frantic hard-rock beat with electric guitar and a roving spotlight that waves crazily over anya.
scene direction: anya shrieking a la alanis morissette
anya: bunnies aren't just cute like everybody supposes! / they've got them hoppy legs and twitchy little noses! / and what's with all the carrots? / what do they need such good eyesight for anyway?
scene direction: anya playing air guitar
anya: bunnies! / bunnies! / it must be bunnies!
scene direction: fireworks go off all around her, then the smoke clears away. the others continue simply staring.
anya: or maybe midgets.
scene direction: willow quickly sits down beside giles and opens a book
willow: i've got a theory we should work this fast.
willow and giles: because it clearly could get serious before it's passed.
scene direction: giles gets up, starts to climb the stairs to the loft.
buffy: i've got a theory. it doesn't matter.
scene direction: giles pauses, turns back. everyone looks at buffy.
buffy: what can't we face if we're together? / what's in this place that we can't weather? / apocalypse? / we've all been there. / the same old trips / why should we care?
all except giles: what can't we do if we get in it? / we'll work it through within a minute.
scene direction: buffy looks at giles throughout this. he watches her too and finally joins in.
all: we have to try / we'll pay the price / it's do or die.
buffy: hey, i've died twice.
scene direction: giles smiles, comes down off the ladder.
all: what can't we face if we're together?
giles: what can't we face...
all: what's in this place that we can't weather?
giles: ...if we're together...
all: there's nothing we can't face.
scene direction: anya sits
anya: except for bunnies.
scene direction: end of song "i've got a theory".
scene direction: xander sits
xander: see, okay, that was disturbing.
scene direction: willow sits
willow: i thought it was neat.
buffy: so what is it? what's causing it?
giles: i thought it didn't matter.
buffy: well, i'm not exactly quaking in my stylish yet affordable boots, but there's definitely something unnatural going on here. and that doesn't usually lead to hugs and puppies.
anya: well, is it just us? i mean, is it only happening to us?
scene direction: anya buffy turns away
anya: 'cause that would probably mean a spell or-
scene direction: buffy goes to the door, opens it. the bell jingles.
scene change: cut to the street. a man (btvs writer/producer david fury) stands in the street holding a shirt in a dry-cleaning bag.
scene direction: david sings
david: they got ... the mustard ... out!
scene direction: we see a whole crowd of people standing in dance formation holding dry-cleaning bags. they do a synchronized dance, waving the clothing around.
scene direction: crowd sings
crowd: they got the mustard out!
scene direction: buffy turns back into the store, closes the door.
buffy: it's not just us.
scene change: cut to later. dawn enters the store wearing a huge smile.
dawn: oh my god. you will never believe what happened at school today.
scene direction: reveal the rest of the gang sitting around the table looking at books.
buffy: everybody started singing and dancing?
scene direction: dawn looks disappointed.
dawn: i gave birth to a pterodactyl.
anya: oh my god, did it sing?
scene direction: shot of willow and tara whispering to each other.
dawn: so, you guys too, huh?
scene direction: dawn walks closer
xander: so what'd you guys sing about?
scene direction: dawn sighs
dawn: math.
scene direction: dawn puts down her backpack, sits on a stool by the counter. we see willow whispering in tara's ear.
scene direction: tara loudly
tara: tha-that's right! the, the volume. the text.
giles: what text?
willow: the volume-y text. you know? the, the
scene direction: willow mumbles
willow: report.
xander: the what now?
tara: oh, there's just a few volumes back at the house that deal with mystical chants, bacchanals.
scene direction: dawn glances at the counter, sees a necklace lying there.
tara: it might be relevant.
willow: yeah, we could, um-
giles: well, i'm a hair's breadth from investigating bunnies at the moment, so i'm open to anything.
scene direction: dawn furtively picks up the necklace and puts it in her pocket.
willow: great, we'll, uh, go check it out and uh, we'll give you a call.
tara: yeah, this could blow the whole thing wide open.
scene change: cut to willow and tara walking through a park. it's sunny and beautiful. green grass, blue sky, etc.
tara: do we have any books at all at home?
willow: well, who wants to be cooped up on a day like this? the sun is shining, there's songs going on...
scene direction: a couple of young men walk by and look at willow and tara as they pass.
willow: ...those guys are checking you out.
tara: what?
scene direction: tara turns to look
tara: wh-what are they looking at?
willow: the hotness of you, doofus.
tara: those boys really thought i was hot?
scene direction: tara looks back at them again
willow: entirely.
tara: oh my god. i'm cured! i want the boys!
scene direction: tara makes like she's going to run after the guys. willow grabs her and pulls her back. tara giggles.
willow: do i have to fight to keep you? 'cause i'm not large with the butch.
scene direction: they stand underneath a tree, leaning on a wooden railing.
tara: i'm just ... not used to that. they-they were really looking at me?
scene direction: willow fondly
willow: and you can't imagine what they see in you.
tara: i know exactly what they see in me. you.
scene direction: song "i'm under your spell" begins.
tara: i lived my life in shadow / never the sun on my face. / it didn't seem so sad, though / i figured that was my place / now i'm bathed in light
scene direction: tara walking out from the shade, lifting her face to the sun
tara: something just isn't right / i'm under your spell / how else could it be / anyone would notice me? / it's magic, i can tell / how you set me free / brought me out so easily.
scene direction: pan across a little stream with a bridge over it. willow and tara are on the bridge. tara takes willow's hand and they walk off the bridge onto a path, holding hands.
tara: i saw a world enchanted / spirits and charms in the air.
scene direction: tara makes a gesture with her arm and sparkles appear, following her hand with a little tinkling noise.
tara: i always took for granted / i was the only one there.
scene direction: willow makes some even more impressive sparkles with her hand, ending in a small shower of sparks surrounding them both. they smile at each other.
tara: but your power shone / brighter than any i've known.
scene direction: tara spins away from willow. we see a small pond at the edge of the grass. tara begins to dance.
tara: i'm under your spell / nothing i can do / you just took my soul with you.
scene direction: a couple of young women are on the grass sunbathing in the background. they get up and begin dancing in sync with tara.
tara: you worked your charms so well / finally, i knew / everything i dreamed was true / you made me believe.
sunbathers: ahhh, ahhh, ahhh...
scene direction: willow and tara spin around in each other's arms. suddenly they are in their bedroom. they sit down on the bed and look lovingly at each other. the music and background "ahh, ahh" continues.
tara: the moon to the tide / i can feel you inside / i'm under your spell
scene direction: tara lies down on the bed
tara: surging like the sea.
scene direction: willow leans over her, smiles.
tara: wanting you so helplessly / i break with every swell.
scene direction: willow moves downward, disappears out of shot.
tara: lost in ecstasy / spread beneath my willow tree / you make me complete!
scene direction: tara's body slowly rises up and hovers over the bed.
tara:you make me complete / you make me complete / you make me...
scene direction: cut back to the magic shop. everyone still looking at books.
xander: i bet they're not even working.
buffy: who now?
xander: willow and tara. you see the way they were with each other? the get-a-roominess to them? i bet they're-
scene direction: xander glances at dawn, catches himself
xander: singing. they're probably singing right now.
giles: i'm sure willow and tara are making every effort.
xander: oh, yeah.
buffy: xander.
dawn: buffy, it's okay. i do know about this stuff. besides, it's all kinda romantic.
buffy and xander: no it's not!
dawn: come on! songs, dancing around. what's gonna be wrong with that?
scene change: cut to the bronze. it's dark. a man is tap-dancing across the floor. cut closer and we see that his expression is scared and desperate. he continues dancing and suddenly bursts into flame, screaming.
scene direction: he falls to the floor in front of a pair of feet in red shoes and red pants.
scene direction: pan up to reveal a demon in a red suit, with red skin and a pointy chin.
sweet: that's entertainment.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on exterior shot of xander's apartment building.
xander: you want some breakfast, baby?
scene change: cut to the bedroom. xander and anya still in bed.
anya: you don't have to go to work?
xander: nah, i shut the crew down for the day. my guys start dancing around me, i don't know if i can deal. it's a flab thing. so, waffles?
anya: will you still make me waffles when we're married?
xander: no, i'll only make them for myself, but by california law, you will own half of them.
scene direction: xander kisses her
xander: hey, how about omelettes? i could do an omelette. i've almost got that-
scene direction: xander continues talking unintelligibly as anya sits up and begins to sing to the camera.
scene direction: song "i'll never tell" begins.
anya: this is the man that i plan to entangle / isn't he fine? / my claim to fame was to maim and to mangle / vengeance was mine! / but i'm out of the biz / the name i made, i'll trade for his / the only trouble is
scene direction: anya pauses, shakes her head
anya: i'll never tell.
scene direction: anya gets up and walks off. xander sits up in bed and sings to the camera.
xander: she is the one / she's such wonderful fun / such passion and grace.
scene direction: anya returns, sits beside him to put on her slippers. xander fondles her knee.
xander: warm in the night when i'm right in her tight-
scene direction: xander catches himself
xander: embrace! tight embrace!
scene direction: xander hugs her
xander: i'll never let her go
scene direction: xander anya putting slippers on
xander: the love we've known can only grow / there's just one thing that - no. / i'll never tell.
both: 'cause there's nothing to tell.
scene change: cut to the two of them leaving the bedroom, emerging into the living room.
anya: he snores.
xander: she wheezes.
anya: say 'housework' and he freezes.
scene direction: xander opens the fridge
xander: she eats these skeezy cheeses that i can't describe.
scene direction: xander picks up a green cheese, sniffs it and makes an "ew" face.
anya: i talk, he breezes.
xander: she doesn't know what 'please' is.
anya: his penis got diseases from a chumash tribe!
scene direction: xander looks annoyed, closes fridge.
both: the vibe gets kind of scary.
xander: like she thinks i'm ordinary.
anya: like it's all just temporary.
xander: like her toes are kind of hairy.
scene direction: both giving each other fake smiles
both: but it's all very well / 'cause god knows, i'll never tell!
scene direction: xander opens the newspaper. the headline on the front page reads mayhem caused. monsters certainly not involved, officials say.
anya: when things get rough, he / just hides behind his buffy!
scene direction: xander gives her a look.
anya: now look, he's getting huffy / 'cause he knows that i know.
xander: she clings / she's needy / she's also really greedy /she nev...
anya: his eyes are beady!
xander: this is my verse, hello! / she...
scene direction: anya begins to dance in flapper style.
scene direction: anya speaks
anya: look at me! i'm dancing crazy!
scene direction: xander joins the dance and they dance together around the apartment.
both: you know...
xander: you're quite the charmer.
anya: my knight in armor.
xander: you're the cutest of the scoobies / with your lips as red as rubies / and your firm yet supple-
scene direction: xander catches himself
xander: tight embrace!
scene direction: they resume dancing, then go to opposite sides of the dining room table and sit.
anya: he's swell.
xander: she's sweller.
anya: he'll always be my feller.
xander: that's why i'll never tell her that i'm petrified.
anya: i've read this tale / there's wedding, then betrayal / i know there'll come the day i'll want to run and hide.
scene direction: they get up, crawl across the table toward each other.
both: i lied / i said it's easy / i've tried / but there's these fears i've can't quell.
scene direction: they sit with their backs pressed against each other.
xander: is she looking for a pot of gold?
anya: will i look good when i've gotten old?
scene direction: anya stands up
xander: will our lives become too stressful if i'm never that successful?
anya: when i get so worn and wrinkly that i look like david brinkley?
scene direction: they get up, resume dancing.
xander: am i crazy?
anya: am i dreamin'?
xander: am i marrying a demon?
both: we could really raise the beam in making marriage a hell! / so, thank god, i'll never tell! / i swear that i'll never tell!
scene direction: they walk around the table, toward the couches in the living-room area.
xander: my lips are sealed.
anya: i take the fifth.
xander: nothing to see / move it along.
both: i'll never / tell!
scene direction: they both fall back onto the sofa, clutching each other and laughing fake hollywood-musical laughs.
scene direction: end of song "i'll never tell."
scene change: cut to the street. anya and xander are on either side of giles, all walking down the street. anya and xander both talking at once.
xander: it's a nightmare.
anya: it has to be stopped.
xander: it's a plague. it's like a nightmare about a plague.
anya: it was like we were being watched.
xander: it's like, i didn't wanna be saying things-
anya: like there was a wall missing-
xander: -but they just kept pouring out.
anya: -in our apartment.
xander: and they rhymed and they were mean and
anya: like there were only three walls and not a fourth wall and
xander: my eyes are not beady!
anya: my toes are not hairy!
scene direction: they stop talking over each other.
xander: giles, you've got to stop it.
giles: well, i am looking into some leads, and i-
anya: it's just, clearly our number is a retro pastiche that's never going to be a breakaway pop hit.
xander: work with me, british man. give me an axe and show me where to point it.
scene direction: we hear a woman singing but we can't see her or make out the words yet.
giles: well now, xander, it's not quite that simple. but i have learned about some disturbing things. basically-
scene direction: they continue talking in the background as we focus on a woman (btvs executive producer marti noxon) who is standing by her car singing to a policeman. the cop is writing her a parking ticket and we see that her car is parked next to a fire hydrant. as she sings we can see giles, xander, and anya standing and talking in background.
marti: i'm asking you please no / it isn't right, it isn't fair / there was no parking anywhere / i think that hydrant wasn't there.
scene direction: cop gives her the ticket.
marti: why can't you let it go? / i think i've paid more than my share...
scene direction: she continues singing in the background as xander, anya, and giles resume walking and talking.
xander: as in burnt up? somebody set people on fire? that's nuts!
anya: i don't know. one more verse of our little ditty and i would've been looking for a gas can.
giles: well, clearly emotions are running high.
scene direction: giles we see people in background dancing together
giles: but as far as i can tell these people burnt up from the inside, spontaneously combusted.
scene direction: giles three street sweeper men in background dancing with brooms
giles: i've only seen the one. i was able to examine the body while the police were taking witness arias.
xander: okay, but we're sure that the things are related: the singing and dancing, and burning and dying.
scene direction: they stop walking. the street sweepers continue their dance in background.
giles: we're not sure of much. buffy's looking for leads at the local demon haunts, at least ... in theory she is, but ... she doesn't seem to-
xander: she's easing back into it. we pulled her out of an untold hell dimension. ergo the weirdness. the important thing is to be there for her.
scene direction: giles shakes head
giles: i'm helping her as much as i can, but, uh...
scene direction: anya pats giles awkwardly on the shoulder.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. buffy enters. spike emerges from his underground lair.
spike: the sun sets and she appears.
scene direction: spike climbs up the rest of the way
spike: come to serenade me?
buffy: so you know what's going on.
spike: well, i've seen some damn funny things in the last two days. a 600 pound chirago demon making like yma sumac, that one will stay with you. i remain immune, happy to say.
scene direction: spike holds up a bottle of whiskey
spike: drink?
buffy: a world of no.
scene direction: buffy sits
buffy: so any idea what's causing this?
scene direction: spike disappointed
spike: oh. so that's all. you've just come to pump me for information.
buffy: what else would i wanna pump you for?
scene direction: buffy cringes
buffy: i really just said that, didn't i?
spike: yeah, well ... don't wanna bore you with the small talk.
scene direction: spike walks to the door, opens it and turns toward buffy.
spike: don't know a thing.
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: what's up? you're all bad moody.
spike: nothing. glad you could stop by.
scene direction: he makes a gesture toward the door. buffy stays seated, looks at him.
scene direction: spike defensive
spike: it's nothing.
buffy: what?
scene direction: song "rest in peace" begins.
spike: i died / so many years ago.
scene direction: spike looks surprised to hear himself singing. buffy rolls her eyes
spike: but you can make me feel / like it isn't so
scene direction: spike shakes his head, closes the door
spike: and why you come to be with me / i think i finally know / mmm, mmm. / you're scared. / ashamed of what you feel.
scene direction: buffy not looking at him.
spike: and you can't tell the ones you love / you know they couldn't deal.
scene direction: now she looks at him, frowns.
spike: whisper in a dead man's ear, / it doesn't make it real.
scene direction: spike points to his head
scene direction: buffy looks at him, then looks away. spike rolls his eyes in annoyance.
spike: that's great. / but i don't wanna play.
scene direction: spike walks over to a coffin
spike: 'cause being with you touches me / more than i can say. / but since i'm only dead to you
scene direction: spike jumps up to sit on the coffin
spike: i'm saying stay away
scene direction: spike lies down on the coffin, crosses arms over his chest
spike: and let me rest in peace.
scene direction: spike jumps up and the song takes on an angry rock beat for the refrain.
spike: let me rest in peace / let me get some sleep
scene direction: spike grabs whiskey bottle and throws it against the wall. buffy jumps up
spike: let me take my love and bury it / in a hole six foot deep / i can lay my body down
scene direction: spike advancing on buffy
spike: but i can't find my sweet release
scene direction: spike turns away from her with an angry gesture
spike: so let me rest in peace!
scene direction: buffy looks annoyed, turns toward the door, but spike intercepts her.
spike: you know / you've got a willing slave
scene direction: spike goes to his knees
spike: and you just love to play the thought / that you might misbehave.
scene direction: buffy rolls her eyes.
spike: but till you do i'm telling you,
scene direction: spike stands up
spike: stop visiting my grave
scene direction: spike angrily
spike: and let me rest in peace.
scene direction: spike yanks the door open again.
scene change: cut to the graveyard. a group of men carry a coffin along. a few dozen yards away we see spike and buffy walking along side-by-side.
spike: i know i should go / but i follow you like a man possessed / there's a traitor here beneath my breast
scene direction: spike exchanges a look with buffy
spike: and it hurts me more than you've ever guessed
scene direction: spike looking at buffy
spike: if my heart could beat, it would break my chest.
scene direction: they stop walking.
spike: but i can see you're unimpressed
scene direction: spike angrily
spike: so leave me be.
scene direction: spike jumps up onto the coffin being carried by the men.
spike: and let me rest in peace / let me get some sleep.
scene direction: the pall-bearers tip the coffin and spike tumbles off the end of it, bounces to his feet and shifts into game face.
spike: let me take my love and bury it / in a hole six foot deep.
scene direction: he rampages through the mourners, tossing their folding-chairs aside. the people scatter.
spike: i can lay my body down / but i can't find my sweet release...
scene direction: he grabs the priest, stares at him. buffy comes up behind spike, grabs him and turns him around.
scene direction: spike and buffy tumble backward into the open grave. spike lands on his back with buffy on top of him. he's back in human face.
spike: let me rest in peace. / why won't you / let me rest in peace?
scene direction: end of song "rest in peace."
scene direction: they still lie in the grave with buffy on top. she stares at spike for a moment, then gets off him, leaps out of the grave and runs off. spike pokes his head up out of the grave to watch her go.
scene direction: spike speaks
spike: so ... you're not staying then?
scene change: cut to dawn's bedroom. dawn is dumping stuff out of her schoolbag. tara watches from the doorway. tara has the "forget" herb pinned to her blouse.
tara: lotta homework?
dawn: ah, math. it seemed cool when we were singing about it.
scene direction: tara smiles
tara: willow said they have a lead on the whole musical extravaganza evil. this demon that can be summoned, some sort of lord of the dance.
scene direction: tara grins
tara: oh, but not the scary one. just a demon.
dawn: um ... do they know who summoned it?
tara: they don't even know its name yet. but willow will find out. she's the brainy type.
scene direction: tara smiles
dawn: hm.
scene direction: dawn smiles at tara
dawn: i'm glad you guys made up.
tara: what?
dawn: that fight you guys had about magic and stuff? it gives me belly rumblings when you guys fight.
scene direction: tara confused
tara: dawn, willow and i never fought about-
dawn: it's okay. it's just ... you guys are so great together. i just hate it when you-
scene direction: tara puts her hand to the herb on her blouse, removes it. her "i'm under your spell" melody plays in background.
dawn: but that was the only fight i've seen you guys have anyway. but i'm still glad it's over.
scene direction: tara staring at the herb
tara: dawn, i, um ... there's something i need at the shop. will you be okay for a little while?
dawn: yes. the fifteen-year-old can spend a half an hour alone in her locked house.
tara: i-i won't be gone long.
scene direction: tara leaves.
scene direction: dawn goes over to a side table, opens a small wooden box. it's filled with stuff she has taken from the magic shop. she takes out the necklace from before and puts it on, looks at herself in the mirror.
scene direction: dawn sings
dawn: does anybody even notice? does anybody even care?
scene direction: she turns around to find a demon, sweet's minion, standing behind her. its whole head is like a big mask. we see there are actually three of the minions. they throw a bag over dawn's head. she continues screaming, muffled.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the bronze. pan down to reveal dawn asleep on the pool table. she suddenly jerks awake, sits up, begins to do a ballet dance.
scene direction: she leaps down off the pool table and is confronted by one of the mask minions. they do a ballet-ish dance that basically represents dawn trying to escape and the demon stopping her. the other two demons appear and join the dance. they surround dawn as she huddles close to the floor. then they fling her and she goes sliding across the floor, stopping beside the stage. we see sweet's feet in red pants and black-and-white dance shoes. they begin to do a tap-dance number, dance down the stairs and toward dawn... meanwhile the camera moves up to reveal sweet. he dances around to the other side of dawn.
scene direction: song "that's what it's all about." begins.
sweet: why'd you run away? / don't you like my ... style?
scene direction: he snaps his fingers and his red suit turns to a blue one.
sweet: why don't you come and play? / i guarantee a...
scene direction: he reaches up to his face, pulls off his mouth and holds the disembodied mouth in dawn's face. she stares in shock as the mouth continues singing.
sweet: ...great big smile. / the mouth disappears from his hand and reappears in its normal place.
sweet: i come from the / imagination / and i'm here strictly by your / invocation
scene direction: sweet holds up a scroll covered with writing
sweet: so what do you say? / why don't we dance awhile?
scene direction: he dances over to dawn, gestures at her, then dances away again.
sweet: i'm the hot swing / i'm the twist and shout
scene direction: sweet tap dances
sweet: when you gotta sing, / when you gotta ... let it out.
scene direction: shot of the three minions dancing to the tune.
sweet: you call me and i come a-running
scene direction: sweet dances back toward dawn
sweet: i turn the music on / i bring the fun in
scene direction: sweet makes a string-pulling gesture at dawn, who gets up
sweet: now we're partyin' / that's what it's all about.
scene direction: sweet chuckles
scene direction: he dances toward dawn and she dances backward.
sweet: 'cause i know ... what you feel, girl.
scene direction: he puts his arms around her and they dance together. dawn looks scared.
sweet: i know just what you feel, girl.
scene direction: he spins dawn away, she dances a few steps away from him.
scene direction: dawn speaks, nervous
dawn: so ... you're like a good demon? bringing the fun in?
scene direction: sweet laughs, shakes his head "no".
sweet: all these melodies ...
scene direction: dawn sits.
sweet: they go on too long / then that energy...
scene direction: minions doing a dance-fight.
sweet: starts to come on way too strong / all those hearts laid open, that must sting.
scene direction: a door appears beside sweet, he reaches for the knob.
sweet: plus, some customers just start combusting.
scene direction: sweet opens the door and a charred smoking corpse falls through it. dawn stares in horror.
sweet: that's the penalty
scene direction: sweet dances back over to her
sweet: when life is but a song.
scene direction: sweet dancing up very close to dawn, she looks very nervous
sweet: you brought me down into this town / so, when we blow this scene / back we will go to my kingdom below / and you will be my queen.
scene direction: sweet makes a gesture and dawn's clothing turns to a satiny ball gown.
sweet: 'cause i know what you feel, girl.
scene direction: sweet dances up onto the stage
dawn: no, you see / you and me / wouldn't be very regal.
sweet: i'll make it real, girl.
scene direction: sweet dancing around the stage
dawn: what i mean / i'm fifteen / so this queen thing's illegal.
scene direction: sweet jumps back onto the floor
sweet: i can bring whole cities to ruin / and still have time to get a soft-shoe in.
dawn: well, that's great / but i'm late / and i'd hate to delay her.
scene direction: sweet dancing around her
sweet: something's cooking, i'm at the griddle / i bought nero his very first fiddle.
dawn: she'll get pissed / if i'm missed / see, my sister's the slayer.
scene direction: sweet stops in mid-kick, looks surprised, stops dancing, turns to dawn. end of song "that's what it's all about".
scene direction: sweet speaks
sweet: the slayer?
scene direction: dawn nods, nervously
dawn: yuh-huh.
scene direction: sweet chuckles, turns to minions
sweet: find her. tell her ... tell her everything.
scene direction: dawn looks nervous.
sweet: just get her here. i want to see the slayer burn.
scene direction: dawn looks alarmed.
scene direction: sweet sings
sweet: now we're partying. that's what it's all about.
scene change: cut to the workout room. giles holds a large piece of wood. buffy kicks it in two.
giles: good. good.
buffy: i feel like i should ... bow, or ... have honor or something.
giles: it may seem hokey, but we need to work on precision and concentration as much as power.
scene direction: giles goes to put the wood down
giles: we're still not sure what we're facing.
scene direction: buffy puts one leg up on the horse, stretches
buffy: oh, you'll figure it out. i'm just worried this whole session's gonna turn into some training montage from an 80's movie.
giles: ah. well, if we hear any inspirational power chords, we'll just lie down until they go away.
scene direction: giles picks up a towel
giles: anyway, i don't think we need to work that much on your strength.
buffy: yeah, i'm pretty spry for a corpse.
scene direction: buffy doing a handstand on the horse
scene direction: giles pauses
giles: have you spoken to dawn about that incident at halloween?
scene direction: buffy leaps down from the horse, frowns.
buffy: oh. i thought you took care of that.
scene direction: buffy stretching her arms
scene direction: giles softly
giles: right.
scene direction: buffy oblivious
buffy: what would i do without you?
scene direction: giles looks pensive, turns and begins to walk toward a set of weapons in a display case on the wall.
buffy: okay. i'm ready.
scene direction: song "standing in the way" begins.
giles: you're not ready for the world outside / you keep pretending, but you just can't hide
scene direction: giles picks up something from weapons case
giles: i know i said that i'd be standing by your side
scene direction: giles walks toward buffy
giles: but i...
scene direction: giles throws a small knife at buffy. she leans backward, lets it fly past her.
giles: your path's unbeaten and it's all uphill
scene direction: giles throws another knife, which she deflects with one hand
giles: and you can meet it, but you never will
scene direction: giles walking back toward the weapons
giles: and i'm the reason that you're standing still
scene direction: giles looks at her as she stands waiting
giles: but i...
scene direction: giles walks back, throws another knife, buffy kicks it aside in slow-motion
giles: i wish i could say the right words / to lead you through this land.
scene direction: buffy still kicking in slo-mo.
giles: wish i could play the father / and take you by the hand
scene direction: giles reaching out his hand, then pulls it back
giles: wish i could stay here / but now i understand
scene direction: giles walks closer as buffy does a handspring and then a split in slo-mo
giles: i'm standing in the way.
scene direction: as giles continues singing, we cut to the magic shop. tara walks in as willow has her back turned. willow doesn't see tara.
giles: the cries around you, you don't hear at all.
scene direction: tara walks quickly toward the back, crying, looking at the herb in her hand, begins to climb the steps to the loft.
giles: 'cause you know i'm here to take that call.
scene direction: cut back to the workout room. giles walks around the perimeter in regular speed as buffy does flips across the center of the room in slo-mo.
giles: so you just lie there when you should be standing tall / but i...
scene direction: buffy punching the punching bag in slo-mo as giles walks around her.
giles: i wish i could lay your arms down / and let you rest at last / wish i could slay your demons / but now that time has passed / wish i could stay here / your stalwart, standing fast / but i've been standing in the way.
scene direction: buffy walks right up in front of giles, shaking her hair out, still in slo-mo.
giles: i'm just standing ... in the way.
scene direction: end of song "standing in the way".
scene direction: buffy returns to regular speed.
scene direction: buffy speaks
buffy: did you just say something?
scene change: cut to the loft. tara looks through a book. she holds the piece of dried herb up to a picture of the same herb.
scene direction: close shot on the book. the herb is labeled "lethe's bramble. used for augmenting spells of forgetting and mind control."
scene direction: song "wish i could stay" begins.
tara: i'm under your spell / god, how can this be? / playing with my memory
scene direction: tara turns, goes to the edge of the loft and looks down
tara: you know i've been through hell / willow, don't you see?
scene direction: below, we see buffy go over to willow and greet her.
tara: there'll be nothing left of me / you made me believe.
scene direction: giles emerges from the back, overlaps with tara's last word.
giles: believe me, i don't wanna go.
giles and tara: and it'll grieve me 'cause i love you so.
scene direction: shot of willow and buffy talking, oblivious to the singing.
giles and tara: but we both know.
scene direction: tara comes down the stairs and giles sits at the table as they sing.
giles and tara: wish i could say the right words / to lead you through this land / wish i could play the father / and take you by the hand wish i could trust that it was just this once / but i must do what i must / i can't adjust to this disgust / we're done and i just...
giles and tara: wish i could stay.
scene direction: tara reaches the ground level, giles stands up.
giles and tara: wish i could stay / wish i could stay.
scene direction: they both walk toward the front of the store. another shot of buffy and willow talking.
giles and tara: wish i could stay...
scene direction: end of song "wish i could stay".
scene direction: tara and giles stand side-by-side as their song ends. suddenly spike bursts into the magic shop pulling one of sweet's minions. everyone turns to look.
spike: lookie lookie what i found.
tara: is-is this the demon guy?
scene direction: willow happily
willow: tara!
scene direction: tara ignores her. willow looks surprised. xander and anya emerge from the back.
spike: works for him. has a nice little story for the slayer, don't you? come on, then.
scene direction: spike shoves the minion forward
spike: sing.
scene direction: the music swells up dramatically as if to introduce a big musical number, but the minion simply speaks in normal voice.
minion: my master has the slayer's sister hostage at the bronze because she summoned him and at midnight he's going to take her to the underworld to be his queen.
giles: what does he want?
scene direction: minion indicates buffy
minion: her.
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: if that's all you've got to say, then-
scene direction: spike tries to grab the minion but he breaks free and runs off.
scene direction: spike surprised
spike: strong. someday he'll be a real boy.
buffy: so. dawn's in trouble. must be tuesday.
tara: i-i just left her for a few minutes.
buffy: oh, it's not your fault. so what's the plan?
xander: plan, schman. let's mount up.
giles: no.
anya: uh, dawn may have had the wrong idea in summoning this creature, but ... i've seen some of these underworld child bride deals and, and they never end well. well, maybe once.
willow: we're not just gonna stay here.
giles: yes we are.
scene direction: giles looks intently at buffy
giles: buffy's going alone.
scene direction: spike disgusted laugh
spike: gah! don't be a stupid git. there is no-
giles: if i want your opinion, spike, i'll-
scene direction: giles pauses to consider
giles: i'll never want your opinion.
willow: a little confusion spell could-
tara: no!
scene direction: tara willow looks surprised
tara: i mean, i don't think it'll help.
scene direction: spike to buffy
spike: look, forget them, slayer. i've got your back.
buffy: i thought you wanted me to stay away from you. isn't that what you sang?
xander: spike sing a widdle song?
anya: would you say it was a breakaway pop hit or more of a book number?
xander: let it go, sweetie.
scene direction: spike to buffy, angrily
spike: fine. i hope you dance till you burn. you and the little bit.
scene direction: spike exits. buffy looks at giles.
buffy: you're really not coming.
scene direction: giles walks up to her
giles: it's up to you, buffy.
scene direction: buffy upset
buffy: what do you expect me to do?
giles: your best.
scene direction: buffy stares at him.
scene change: cut to the street. it's dark, red lighting. some people are doing an angry dance-fight. pan down to focus on a garbage can with a fire burning inside it.
scene direction: buffy walks up in foreground, holds her hand out to the fire.
scene direction: song "walk through the fire" begins.
buffy: i touch the fire and it freezes me / i look into it and it's black / why can't i feel?
scene direction: buffy looking at her hand
buffy: my skin should crack and peel
scene direction: buffy turns to glare at the camera
buffy: i want the fire back!
scene change: cut to the bronze. smoke swirls as sweet shoves dawn into a chair, goes to sit in another chair beside her. dawn looks scared.
buffy: now through the smoke, she calls to me / to make my way across the flame.
scene direction: cut back to buffy standing on the street.
buffy: to save the day / or maybe melt away / i guess it's all the same / so i will walk
scene direction: buffy starts to walk
buffy: through the fire / 'cause where else can i turn? / i will walk through the fire / and let it...
scene change: cut to spike sitting in an alley smoking a cigarette.
spike: the torch i bear is scorching me / buffy's laughing, i've no doubt
scene direction: spike takes a drag
spike: i hope she fries / i'm free if that bitch dies!
scene direction: spike tosses cigarette away angrily, then jumps up
spike: i better help her out.
scene direction: spike starts walking
scene change: cut to the bronze.
sweet: 'cause she is drawn to the fire. / some people...
spike: she will...
spike and sweet: never learn.
scene direction: spike walking down the street. sweet standing up in the bronze.
spike and sweet: and she will walk through the fire / and let it...
scene change: cut to the magic shop. willow and tara sit at the table not looking at each other. giles stands behind the counter.
giles: will this do a thing to change her? / am i leaving dawn in danger? / is my slayer too far gone to care?
xander: what if buffy can't defeat it?
anya: beady eyes is right, we're needed! / or we could just sit around and glare.
scene direction: anya looks at willow and tara
scene direction: giles comes out from behind the counter, gives willow and tara a look. they get up, and they all start walking toward the door.
anya, giles, tara, willow, xander:  we'll see it through / it's what we're always here to do / so we will walk through the fire.
scene change: cut to buffy walking alone through an alley.
buffy: so one by one, they turn from me / i guess my friends can't face the cold / but why i froze, not one among them knows / and never can be told. / what can't we face... / if we're together?
scene direction: the following sequence has sweet split-screened with the scoobies as they walk along the street singing. basically whoever's singing at the moment is on screen.
anya: she came from the grave much graver.
spike: first he'll kill her, then i'll save her.
tara: everything is turning out so dark.
spike: no, i'll save her, then i'll kill her.
willow: i think this line's mostly filler.
giles: what's it gonna take to strike a spark? so one by one they turn to me / the distant redness as their guide / that single flame / ain't what they had in mind. / it's what they have inside. / going through the motions / walking through the part.
sweet: these endless days are finally ending in a blaze she will come to me.
buffy, anya, giles, spike, tara, willow, xander: and we are caught in the fire.
scene direction: buffy walking down the street alone.
buffy, anya, giles, spike, tara, willow, xander: the point of no return / so we will walk through the fire.
scene direction: the scoobies walking down the street. a fire engine goes by behind them with lights flashing.
buffy, anya, giles, spike, tara, willow, xander: and let it / burn / let it burn.
scene direction: spike jumps over a fence, is in an alley.
buffy, anya, giles, spike, tara, willow, xander: let it burn / let it burn!
scene direction: buffy kicks down the door of the bronze. it smashes to pieces.
scene direction: sweet speaks
sweet: showtime!
scene direction: sweet chuckles
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: buffy walks into the bronze, looks around, sees sweet and dawn sitting in chairs on the stage.
sweet: i love a good entrance.
buffy: how are you with death scenes?
scene direction: sweet just chuckles. buffy walks a little closer.
buffy: you got a name?
sweet: i've got a hundred.
buffy: well, i ought to know what to call you if you're gonna be my brother-in-law.
dawn: buffy, i swear i didn't do it.
buffy: don't worry. you're not going anywhere.
scene direction: buffy sweet looks at her
buffy: i am.
dawn: what?
scene direction: dawn sweet looks interested, sits forward
scene direction: buffy to sweet
buffy: deal's this. i can't kill you? you take me to hellsville in her place.
scene direction: sweet scoffs
sweet: what if i kill you?
scene direction: buffy deadpan
buffy: trust me. won't help.
sweet: hm, that's gloomy!
buffy: that's life.
scene direction: sweet chuckles
sweet: come now, is that really what you feel? isn't life a miraculous thing?
buffy: i think you already know.
scene direction: song "life" begins.
buffy: life's a show / and we all play our parts / and when the music starts
scene direction: buffy unbuttons her jacket, opens it
buffy: we open up our hearts.
scene direction: buffy drops jacket to the floor
buffy: it's all right / if some things come out wrong
scene direction: buffy looks over, sees the minions holding pool cues
buffy: we'll sing a happy song / and you can sing along.
scene direction: the beat changes to a harsh hard-rock tune with lots of electric guitar. the minions attack.
buffy: where there's life
scene direction: buffy grabs pool cue from minion, hits him
buffy: there's hope / every day's
scene direction: buffy elbows second minion
buffy: a gift / wishes can
scene direction: buffy kicks
buffy: come true / whistle while
scene direction: buffy punches
buffy: you work
scene direction: buffy strikes blow with pool cue
buffy: so hard
scene direction: buffy strikes blow
buffy: all day.
scene direction: buffy throws pool cue, impales third minion
scene direction: back to the original ballad melody.
buffy: to be like other girls.
scene direction: giles, anya, xander, willow, and tara run in.
buffy: to fit in in this glittering world.
scene direction: sweet watching, listening.
buffy: don't give me songs.
scene direction: giles speaks
giles: she needs backup. anya, tara.
buffy: don't give me songs.
scene direction: anya and tara take up positions behind buffy to be her backup singers and dancers. the three of them move in sync.
buffy: give me something to sing about.
anya and tara: ahhhhh...
buffy: i need something to sing about.
anya and tara: ahhhhh...
scene direction: more dancing. the hard-rock beat returns. the girls dance to it for a minute, then return to the first dance and the ballad.
buffy: life's a song / you don't get to rehearse. / and every single verse / can make it that much worse.
scene direction: anya and tara stop dancing, move to background.
scene direction: buffy puts up a hand as if to shield herself from the sight of her friends.
buffy: still my friends / don't know why i ignore / the million things or more / i should be dancing for.
scene direction: back to the hard-rock tune. buffy continues dancing alone.
buffy: all the joy / life sends / family / and friends / all the twists / and bends / knowing that / it ends / well that / depends...
scene direction: back to the ballad melody.
buffy: on if they let you go
scene direction: buffy looking around at the scoobies
buffy: on if they know enough to know
scene direction: buffy walking up the steps to the stage
buffy: that when you've bowed / you leave the crowd.
scene direction: she walks up onto the stage, looks back at the others, then at sweet still sitting. he makes his string-pulling gesture. buffy walks right up to him.
buffy: there was no pain / no fear, no doubt / till they pulled me out / of heaven.
scene direction: buffy looks back at the others. giles and xander looking surprised
buffy: so that's my refrain.
scene direction: willow looking horrified.
buffy: i live in hell.
scene direction: xander looking horrified.
buffy: 'cause i've been expelled / from heaven / i think i was in heaven.
scene direction: willow looking horrified.
buffy: so give me something to sing about.
scene direction: buffy whirls around to look at sweet
buffy: please / give me something...
scene direction: sweet shakes his head. buffy gives a desperate look, turns and flips off the stage onto the floor. the hard-rock tune returns with the electric guitars playing a wild riff. buffy dances, faster and faster. dawn watches in dismay. sweet leans forward expectantly.
scene direction: buffy spins wildly round and round and round, smoke begins to curl off her.
scene direction: suddenly spike appears, stops her by grabbing her upper arms. buffy gives him a desperate unhappy look.
spike: life's not a song / life isn't bliss / life is just this / it's living
scene direction: spike brushes hair back from her face
spike: you'll get along.
scene direction: dawn stands up.
spike: the pain that you feel / you only can heal / by living.
scene direction: buffy looks about to cry.
spike: you have to go one living / so one of us is living.
scene direction: buffy stares at spike. dawn walks forward to the edge of the stage.
scene direction: dawn speaks
dawn: the hardest thing in this world ... is to live in it.
scene direction: buffy looks at dawn, then back at spike.
scene direction: shot of tara trying to comfort willow.
scene direction: last few chords. end of song "life's a show".
scene direction: sweet applauds.
sweet: now that was a show-stopping number.
scene direction: buffy and spike turning to look at him.
sweet: not quite the fireworks that i was looking for.
willow: get out of here.
sweet: mm, i smell power.
scene direction: sweet stands
sweet: i guess the little missus and i should be on our way.
scene direction: dawn backing away from him in fear, sitting back down.
giles: that's never going to happen.
scene direction: sweet chuckling
sweet: i don't make the rules. she summoned me.
scene direction: dawn to sweet
dawn: i so did not.
scene direction: dawn to others
dawn: he keeps saying that.
sweet: you have my talisman on, sweet thing.
scene direction: sweet reaches to touch the necklace dawn is wearing. she cringes in fear, cowers away from him.
scene direction: dawn very nervous
dawn: oh, but, no, i, i, um, uh, this, at, at the magic box, on the floor, i was, i was cleaning, and i ... forgot ... but ... i didn't summon anything.
sweet: well now, that's a twist.
giles: if it was in the shop ... then one of us probably...
scene direction: beat. they all look around at each other.
scene direction: slowly xander raises his hand.
anya: xander?!
xander: well, i didn't know what was gonna happen! i just thought there were gonna be dances and songs.
scene direction: xander to anya
xander: i just wanted to make sure we'd... we'd work out.
scene direction: xander nervous smile
xander: get a happy ending.
scene direction: sweet chuckling
sweet: i think everything worked out just fine.
xander: does this mean that i have to...
scene direction: xander gulp
xander: be your queen?
scene direction: anya looks anxious.
sweet: it's tempting.
scene direction: xander looking apprehensive.
sweet: but i think we'll waive that clause just this once.
scene direction: xander is intensely relieved. everyone else just continues watching sweet.
sweet: big smiles everyone! you beat the bad guy.
scene direction: he does a quick spin.
scene direction: song "see you in hell" begins.
sweet: what a lot of fun / you guys have been real swell
scene direction: sweet chuckles, begins dancing
sweet: and there's not a one / who can say this ended well.
scene direction: buffy and spike watching.
sweet: all those secrets you've been concealing.
scene direction: willow, tara, giles, and xander watching.
sweet: say you're happy now, / once more with feeling. / now i gotta run / see you all...
scene direction: he turns into a ball of light that swirls around their heads, leaving a sparkly trail. they watch it go.
sweet: ...in heeeeeeell!
scene direction: end of song "see you in hell".
scene direction: everyone stands around looking kind of shell-shocked.
scene direction: dawn walks across the stage in foreground with the others in background.
scene direction: song "where do we go from here?" begins.
dawn: where do we go ... from here?
scene direction: dawn walks to the steps and down
buffy and spike: where do we go ... from here?
giles: the battle's done / and we kind of won.
giles and tara: so we sound our victory cheer / where do we go from here?
anya and xander: why is the path unclear / when we know home is near?
scene direction: they all move to stand in a line side-by-side.
all: understand we'll go hand in hand
scene direction: all join hands
all: but we'll walk alone in fear.
scene direction: all release hands and walk off in different directions
giles: tell me!
all: where do we go from here? / when does the end appear?
scene direction: they all make a dance gesture with their arms.
scene direction: close on spike. in the middle of singing "appear" he suddenly stops, scoffs, puts his arm down.
scene direction: spike speaks
spike: bugger this.
scene direction: spike turns and leaves. the song continues without him.
all: when do the trumpets cheer? / the curtains close on a kiss, god knows.
scene change: cut to outside. spike exits and begins walking down the street.
scene direction: all faintly
all: we can tell the end is near.
scene direction: buffy comes out of the bronze after spike.
scene direction: buffy speaks
buffy: hey.
scene direction: all faintly
all: where do we go from here?
scene direction: end of song "where do we go from here".
scene direction: spike speaks
spike: you should go back inside. finish the big group sing. get your kum-ba-yayas out.
buffy: i don't want to.
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: the day you suss out what you do want, there'll probably be a parade. seventy-six bloody trombones.
buffy: spike...
spike: look, you don't have to say anything.
scene direction: buffy sings
buffy: i touch the fire and it freezes me.
scene direction: spike looks surprised. they walk toward each other.
scene direction: spike sings
spike: i died...
buffy and spike: i look into it and it's black / this isn't real / but i just want to feel so many years ago. / but you can make me / feel...
scene direction: as they hold the last note on "feel" they walk right up to each other. they finish the song and kiss passionately.
scene direction: all singing
all: where do we go from here?
scene direction: the words "the end" flash on the screen, then an image of curtains that draw closed over buffy and spike as they continue kissing.
scene direction: blackout.
