scene direction: episode opens in an alley. overhead shot of a scared middle-aged couple backing up against a wall. two men advancing toward them. one of the men is holding the woman's purse and looking through it.
scene direction: husband nervous
husband: i'm sure we can work something out.
wife: a deal of some sort. anything you want.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: i always wanted a pony.
scene direction: everyone turns to see buffy standing there.
buffy: oh. you weren't really speaking to me, were you? my bad. well, as long as i'm here...
scene direction: she walks forward and kicks one of the men. he stumbles back, drops the purse. he and his cohort stare at buffy in fear. we see that they're human, not vampires.
scene direction: buffy surprised
buffy: wow. a mugging. haven't gotten one of those in a while.
scene direction: the uninjured mugger checking to make sure the one buffy kicked is okay.
buffy: usually it's blood, and with the horror ... just a good old-fashioned mugging.
scene direction: buffy the victims staring at her
buffy: kinda sweet actually.
scene direction: buffy bends over, picks up the woman's purse.
buffy: oh, uh, probably not for you. here.
scene direction: buffy gives the woman her purse
buffy: go. now.
scene direction: the husband and wife run off.
scene direction: one of the muggers attacks buffy and she blocks his punch, punches him, then grabs his arm and twists it around behind him. she holds him there while she kicks the other one back.
buffy: not too sweet for you either, huh?
scene direction: buffy mugger getting up
buffy: but come on, rush me. it'll be funny.
scene direction: the second mugger gets up and is about to rush her when spike comes into the shot yelling.
spike: yaah!
buffy: no!
scene direction: spike punches the mugger and falls into a pile of boxes. buffy lets go of the mugger she's holding and he runs off.
scene direction: spike rolls around in the pile of boxes clutching his head in pain. boxes fall on top of him. the other mugger runs off too. buffy watches them go and yells in frustration.
buffy: gah! oh!
scene direction: spike gets up, still holding his head.
buffy: what the hell are you doing?
spike: i thought they were demons.
buffy: way to go with the keen observiness, jessica fletcher.
scene direction: spike glares
spike: remind me not to help you.
buffy: *more* often?
spike: hey. little sympathy for the man with the migraine here, can we?
buffy: well, that's what you get for attacking a human.
spike: yeah.
scene direction: spike annoyed
spike: you'd think if the government was gonna put a chip in my head, they'd at least make it so i could attack criminals and that sort.
buffy: yes, because muggers deserve to be eaten.
scene direction: spike gives her a sour look.
buffy: just have to get your rocks off fightin' demons.
scene direction: spike suggestively
spike: there are other ways.
buffy: and to that, an extreme 'see you later.'
scene direction: she turns to go. spike smirks, walks after her.
spike: buffy.
scene direction: she stops, sighs, turns back.
buffy: spike ... it's late, okay, can we just finish this another time?
scene direction: spike walks closer
spike: oh, so you wanna jump right to the kissing then, eh?
buffy: i am not kissing you, spike. once was-
spike: twice.
buffy: but not again.
scene direction: she turns away again, begins walking.
spike: you're a tease, you know that, slayer?
scene direction: spike buffy rolls her eyes, continues walking
spike: get a fellow's motor revving, let the tension marinate a couple-a days, then bam! crown yourself the ice queen.
scene direction: buffy still walking away
buffy: need a few more metaphors for that little mix?
scene direction: she walks off. spike stays where he is in the alley, yelling after her.
scene direction: spike yells
spike: it's only a matter of time before you realize i'm the only one here for you, pet. you got no one else!
scene change: cut to the summers house, night. willow opens the door of her bedroom, peeks out, goes back inside and closes the door. she goes over to the window, looks out.
scene direction: amy-rat is in a cage on the floor, squeaking. willow kneels down beside it.
willow: what's the matter, amy? you lonely?
scene direction: willow opens the cage
willow: oh, we need to get you a nice companion rat
scene direction: willow takes amy out of the cage
willow: that you can love ... play with ... and grow attached to, until one day they leave you for no good reason.
scene direction: willow carries the rat over to the bed, stroking it gently. she puts the rat down on the bed.
willow: won't that be fun?
scene direction: willow rat squeaking
willow: relax, amy. i'm just kiddin'. i swear, if i could figure out how to turn you back...
scene direction: willow realizes something
willow: any way ... revele!
scene direction: a sheet of paper appears on the desk. willow picks it up, reads.
willow: 'cio che fu non e piu. cio che fu fatto disfa. passato e il pericolo, finita e la prova. metti le cosa a posto.'
scene direction: willow looks up at the bed. red lightning flashes as the rat morphs back into amy, sitting naked on the bed with her legs pulled up to her chest. willow smiles.
scene direction: amy lifts her head, looks around, her movements all twitchy like a rat. she screams.
scene direction: wolf howl, opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open in a museum, night. a person dressed all in black descends from the domed ceiling on a thin wire, à la tom cruise in "mission impossible." he stops, hovering beside a display case in the center of the room. cut closer. we see that it's andrew, wearing all black clothes and a black beret and a small microphone headset. he attaches a small metal device to the side of the display case.
scene direction: warren and jonathan walk up beside him.
warren: dude, what are you doing?
jonathan: we're not breaking into langley here. it's sunnydale.
andrew: well, you never know what new stuff they have, better safe than-
warren: okay, the security system here is a guy named rusty.
scene direction: warren gives andrew a shove so that he starts spinning head-over-heels in the air. he spins a few times before managing to stop himself. warren and jonathan grin.
warren: now get up.
andrew: whoa, head rush. cool.
scene direction: andrew grins, disconnects himself from the wires.
warren: guys, come on, quit jerking around.
scene direction: warren walks over to the display case. we see that he has a small gas tank strapped to his back. he removes the device that andrew attached to the glass, tosses it over his shoulder. jonathan catches it.
scene direction: warren produces a small blowtorch and begins cutting the glass.
andrew: see, that's cool. how come he gets to play with all the cool stuff?
jonathan: because i'm allergic to methane and you're still afraid of hot things?
scene direction: andrew pouty
andrew: i know.
jonathan: besides, the tank kept making both of us tip over, remember?
scene direction: warren has finished cutting a hole in the glass. he knocks out the round piece of glass, reaches in and grabs a large diamond from the case. he turns to the others.
warren: got it!
jonathan: it's beautiful.
warren: boys, congratulations, phase one of the plan is now complete. let's get the hell outta here.
scene direction: they turn to go, but are confronted by an older man in a security uniform.
rusty: what are you boys doing?
warren: um, we're with a tour group.
scene direction: warren pauses
warren: the get-the-freeze-ray tour group. musta gotten separated.
rusty: museum closed five hours ago.
warren: really?
rusty: uh-huh.
warren: huh! guess we just lost track of time, we should probably get the *freeze ray* out of here now.
scene direction: warren pauses, waiting for the others to pick up on his subtle cue, but they don't. he turns to glare at jonathan. jonathan and andrew finally clue in, turn their backs to rusty and dig in a bag that jonathan's carrying.
warren: 'cause we love the learning, rusty.
scene direction: warren walking closer to rusty
warren: museums, libraries, disney hall of presidents ... not boring. but more to the point? good-bye.
scene direction: warren makes a kissing motion at rusty and backs up. jonathan points a large gun-like device at rusty and fires. ice shoots out of it and encases rusty completely, immobilizing him.
scene direction: warren excited
warren: dude, that is so cool!
scene direction: warren walks closer to rusty
andrew: the freeze ray totally worked.
scene direction: we see that jonathan's arm holding the freeze-ray is also encased in ice.
jonathan: yeah, uh, not exactly.
scene direction: warren still gazing at rusty
warren: so there's a kink or two. it's just a prototype. i mean, soon we'll have-
jonathan: hey, that's really neato and stuff, but in the meantime, you know ... ow!
scene direction: warren glances at him
warren: be a bigger wuss.
jonathan: can we just go back to the lair? because ... i can't ... really feel my fingers.
warren: yeah, yeah, come on.
scene direction: jonathan and andrew walk on past warren. andrew pauses looking at rusty.
andrew: is he gonna like-
warren: oh, he'll be fine. yeah, he'll defrost in a couple of days, no harm, no foul.
andrew: won't he tell on us?
warren: and say what? 'two guys and a mime took me out with their freeze ray'? that's likely.
scene direction: andrew looks uncertain.
warren: come on!
scene direction: they walk off, leaving rusty standing there with bits of mist curling off him.
scene change: cut to the summers house. amy still sits on the bed in the same position, but now she is wearing clothes. she looks around, very twitchy rat-like movements. she jumps as the door opens. willow enters holding a mug.
willow: hey. here's some hot chocolate, you want-
amy: no, thanks.
scene direction: amy gestures at her throat
amy: still ... kinda queasy.
willow: okay. maybe later.
scene direction: willow turns to put the mug down. sound of a siren from outside. amy starts, looks fearfully at the window. magic sound-effect. the window slams shut.
willow: hey, no, i-it's okay.
scene direction: amy makes a gesture with one hand and the curtains pull shut over the window.
scene direction: willow walking forward
willow: it's, it's just a siren. it's o-it's all right. okay? you okay?
scene direction: amy peers at the window, then looks at willow.
scene direction: amy twitchy
amy: mm-hm. yeah. just ... you know.
scene direction: amy whispers
amy: everything feels weird.
scene direction: amy willow nods
amy: i mean, it's like ... i felt like i was in that cage for weeks.
scene direction: amy willow looks nervous
amy: but it can still be okay ... right? i-i can still get into the swing of things, like ... prom's coming up. i-i'm so hoping larry would ask me. we would make such a splash at-
scene direction: amy sees willow's expression
amy: oh. oh god.
scene direction: amy sighs, anxiously
amy: he hasn't asked someone else, has he?
willow: uh, amy ... three things we have to talk about. one, larry's gay.
scene direction: willow amy staring at her
willow: two, larry's dead.
scene direction: willow amy still staring
willow: and three, high school's ... kinda over.
scene direction: amy frowns, stares at her.
amy: how long was i in the cage?
scene direction: willow fidgets nervously, looks around.
amy: how long?!
scene change: cut to downstairs. buffy enters from outside, puts her keys on the table by the door, looks around.
buffy: willow?
scene direction: she goes up the stairs.
scene change: cut to the bedroom. willow sits on the bed, leaning against the headboard. buffy enters.
buffy: hey.
scene direction: buffy they smile at each other
buffy: how you doin'?
willow: oh. uh ... okay.
scene direction: willow sits up
buffy: yeah?
scene direction: buffy sits on bed beside willow
willow: yeah. not parades and cotton candy, but ... okay.
buffy: will, um ... can i talk to you about something?
willow: of course.
scene direction: buffy nervous
buffy: right. okay. um ... you know how we all make choices? and sometimes they're good, and ... sometimes they're ... less good.
willow: uh-huh...
buffy: well, lately, i, uh...
scene direction: the bathroom door opens. buffy glances over as amy comes out.
buffy: oh, tara, hey-
scene direction: buffy pauses, stares
buffy: amy?!
scene direction: amy to willow
amy: the whole school?
scene direction: willow nods. buffy stares at amy, then at willow.
amy: by a giant snake thing.
scene direction: amy nods
amy: okay, still adjusting. hi buffy.
buffy: hi.
scene direction: buffy awkwardly
buffy: how've you been?
amy: rat. you?
buffy: dead.
amy: oh.
scene direction: buffy looking at willow
buffy: well, i should ... let you guys catch up, i can-
amy: no no no, stay.
scene direction: amy twitchy
amy: do you have any cookies?
buffy: uh, yeah, w-what kind?
amy: any kind. not cheese.
buffy: um, sure, in the, the kitchen, i'll just get 'em-
scene direction: buffy gets up
amy: oh no, i'll grab 'em.
scene direction: amy moves toward the door
buffy: okay, well, at least, you know, let me make up the, the couch for you? it's late, you should stay here. everybody does.
scene direction: amy distracted
amy: thank you.
scene direction: amy exits. buffy stares at willow.
buffy: wow.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: i know.
buffy: is ... she gonna be okay?
willow: don't know. she's kinda freaked out. i mean, i would be too.
buffy: wow.
willow: i, i just realized i could. thought of the right thing, and ... it's nice, having another magically-inclined friend around.
scene direction: buffy looks down, pensive.
willow: so, w-what were you gonna tell me? you were sounding all serious.
buffy: huh? oh. uh, it's nothing. i mean, the whole amy, rat, amy thing ... no way i'm toppin' that.
scene direction: buffy exits.
scene change: cut to downstairs. amy sits on the couch eating cookies and watching tv.
scene direction: buffy comes down the stairs, stands in the doorway from the foyer to the living room.
buffy: hey.
scene direction: buffy amy mutes the tv
buffy: how you doin'? need anything?
amy: no, thanks. good cookies.
scene direction: buffy smiles. beat.
amy: sorry about your mom.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: thanks.
amy: it's crazy, all the things that've happened since i went away.
buffy: no kidding.
amy: snyder got eaten by a snake ... high school got destroyed...
buffy: oh, gatorade has a new flavor. blue.
amy: see? head spinning.
scene direction: amy shakes head
amy: people getting frozen ... willow's dating girls ... and did you hear about tom and nicole?!
scene direction: buffy comes forward, frowning.
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: people getting frozen?
scene direction: amy turns on the tv sound.
tv reporter: ...in critical yet stable condition as local authorities continue their investigation into the robbery that left one man frozen solid.
scene direction: on the tv, behind the reporter we can see the exterior of the museum with an ambulance and a bunch of people moving around.
reporter: live from the museum, ryan morris, kous.
amy: weird.
scene change: cut to outside the museum. sirens, flashing lights, a crowd of people standing around.
scene direction: buffy stands behind the gathered people, jumping up and down trying to see over their heads.
buffy: excuse me, excuse me, thanks.
scene direction: she pushes her way to the front of the crowd, stares and frowns.
scene direction: we see a couple of policemen wheeling out the still-frozen rusty on a dolly. tv cameramen following them.
scene direction: buffy turns and starts walking around toward the side of the museum, across the lawn. she looks back at the crowd, continues on her way, suddenly stops as she sees something in front of her.
scene direction: buffy annoyed
buffy: great.
spike: well, well, well. look who decided to show up.
buffy: what are you doing here, spike?
spike: well, you know, a man was frozen alive in there. a little compassion, luv.
scene direction: buffy rolls her eyes, starts to walk past him. spike falls into step beside her.
spike: uh, you know, as long as we're both here, you might as well tag along. i mean, as a team we could-
buffy: yeah, that never really ends well, does it?
spike: it did the other night.
buffy: you really seem awfully fixated on a couple of kisses, spike.
scene direction: spike pauses, so that she walks a few steps ahead of him.
spike: and you seem awfully quick to forget about them.
scene direction: buffy stops walking, turns to him.
buffy: look. i'm sorry, okay? i'm-i'm sorry if you thought that it meant more.
spike: but...
buffy: but ... when i kissed you ... you know i was thinking about giles, right?
spike: you know, i always wondered about you two.
buffy: what?
scene direction: buffy makes a face
buffy: oh, gross, spike!
scene direction: buffy spike frowns
buffy: he left. i was depressed. ergo vulnerability and, and bad kissing decisions.
scene direction: buffy spike still frowning
buffy: okay, but, that's all that it was. you have to let it go.
scene direction: spike smirking
spike: did it work?
buffy: what?
spike: you convince yourself?
scene direction: buffy seriously
buffy: please, stop.
scene direction: she starts walking again. spike follows.
spike: a man can change.
scene direction: she again stops walking and faces him.
buffy: you're not a man. you're a thing.
scene direction: she turns away again. spike frowns, grabs her shoulder.
spike: stop walking away.
buffy: don't touch me!
scene direction: as spike turns her around she punches him with her other hand. he pulls back and backhands her. buffy falls to the ground.
scene direction: spike looks surprised, puts his hand tentatively to his head with the beginning of a smile. looks at buffy, who is still getting to her feet and has her back to him.
spike: ahh, ahh, ohh!
scene direction: spike grabs his head
scene direction: buffy gets up, backhands spike and he goes down. he gets up to a kneeling position with his back to buffy and stays there, looking at the ground. she speaks to his back.
buffy: you're a thing. an evil, disgusting, thing.
scene direction: she walks past him and away.
scene direction: spike lifts his head to watch her go. slowly an evil grin spreads across his face.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on the street, downtown, night. people walking around, talking, etc. spike walks out from an alley, looks around, grins.
scene direction: pan across the street. lots of people going about their business.
scene direction: spike to himself
spike: look at all the goodies.
scene direction: he continues looking around, pauses as he spots something.
scene direction: closer shot of a young blonde woman standing on the corner, looking at her watch, looking around, hugging herself as if she's cold. she turns and starts to walk away.
scene direction: spike moves to follow her.
scene change: cut to an alley. the young woman walks along, still hugging herself, looking nervous. suddenly spike steps out in front of her. she screams.
spike: that's right, you should scream.
scene direction: she tries to get away but he moves to intercept her. she looks scared.
spike: creature of the night here, yeah?
scene direction: spike indicating himself
spike: some people forget that.
scene direction: he advances on the woman. she backs away, shaking her head fearfully, backs up against a wall.
woman: please.
spike: she thinks i'm housebroken. she forgot who she's dealing with.
woman: anything you want, please-
spike: just 'cause she's confused about where she fits in, i'm supposed to be too? 'cause i'm not.
scene direction: spike pacing back and forth
spike: i know what i am. i'm dangerous. i'm evil.
scene direction: woman scared
woman: i-i'm sure you're not evil.
spike: yes, i am. i am a killer.
scene direction: spike moves closer to her
spike: that's what i do. i kill. and, yeah, maybe it's been a long time, but ... it's not like you forget how.
scene direction: he gets up very close to the woman, who is panting fearfully.
spike: you just ... do it.
scene direction: spike nervously
spike: and now i can, again, all right? so here goes.
scene direction: he morphs into vamp face. the woman screams.
spike: this might hurt a little.
scene direction: he bends over to bite her, then flings himself back, yelling in pain, crashes into a dumpster. the woman runs off.
scene direction: spike crouches there clutching the dumpster, panting.
spike: what the hell is going on?
scene change: cut to an outdoor cafe, day. dawn sits drinking from a very large chocolate milkshake as tara watches.
tara: good god, that's a lot of shake.
scene direction: tara dawn nods
tara: i mean, i know, part of our ... big ... movie and milkshake fun day, but ... good god, that's a lot of shake.
scene direction: dawn laughs
dawn: helps to wash down the raisinettes.
tara: promise me that you will eat something green tonight. leafy green, not ... gummi green.
scene direction: they both laugh. dawn continues drinking her milkshake.
tara: the movie was fun.
dawn: yeah. it was ironic when all those cute inner-city kids taught their coach a valuable lesson.
tara: you know that i will always be there for you, right?
scene direction: tara dawn looks at her, stops smiling
tara: there, there was actually more of a lead-in when i practiced that at home.
dawn: i know.
tara: it's just ... i wanted you to know that ... my moving out had nothing to do with you, and i, i will never stop loving you.
dawn: i know.
scene direction: dawn beat
dawn: do you think you'll ever get back together?
tara: i wish i knew.
dawn: but you still love her.
tara: very much. i just ... sometimes ... other things get in the way.
dawn: i know.
scene direction: dawn nervously
dawn: uh, she's been doing a lot better lately, though. uh, she's been really good about ... being careful ... a-about stuff.
tara: well, good. great, that's ... that's great.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. willow, xander, and buffy sit around the round table. anya stands by the bookshelves in background.
willow: here. says the guard's definitely gonna live.
scene direction: xander reading newspaper
xander: he's all thawed out, says they used hair-dryers. huh.
scene direction: shot of the newspaper with an article headline reading - museum guard attacked, frozen. body thawed, remains unconscious.
willow: everything slowed down. his nervous system, circulatory system. he's still unconscious.
scene direction: anya makes a whiny noise.
buffy: anya?
anya: it's such a pain. the text i wanted, giles took it with him. he has this thing that ... owning a book makes it like his property.
buffy: what should we do, should we call him? it's like the middle of last night there.
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: or maybe it's tomorrow. anyone remember how that works?
willow: that's okay, no one freak. we'll just do it another way.
scene direction: willow reaches for her bag
buffy: i-i don't think we need to resort to ... i mean...
scene direction: willow pulls out her laptop computer and sets it on the table.
buffy: oh. hey, cool.
xander: all right, back to basics. a little old-fashioned state-of-the-art hacker action.
buffy: that's great, will, i haven't seen you do that in a long time.
scene direction: willow puts her hands over the keyboard, not touching it. the keyboard glows with a pale yellow light.
scene direction: buffy to xander
buffy: i-i don't remember that part.
scene direction: buffy buffy and xander staring at willow
scene direction: willow staring blankly in front of her
willow: it's quicker. it'll just take me a sec to go through the files. okay. internal police report.
scene direction: buffy and xander exchange a concerned look.
willow: a diamond was stolen from the museum last night. a big one. on loan from the british museum. they're withholding information to smoke out the criminals. oh! it's pretty.
scene direction: willow looks at buffy, smiles
willow: there's a picture.
buffy: well, is it a, a supernatural diamond? you know, like, healing powers, or, or good-lucky?
anya: maybe it's cursed. diamonds are excellent for cursing.
scene direction: willow again staring blankly
willow: well, we'll keep checking, shall we?
scene direction: xander awkwardly
xander: well, you know, i am kinda beat, and i bet you that's tiring, that ... thing you're doing there...
scene direction: xander fake yawn
scene direction: xander gives an exaggerated stretch as if to show he's tired. willow takes her hands off the keyboard. sound effect to indicate the end of her spell. she looks at them.
willow: guys, i'm fine. what's the deal with-
anya: oh, for crying out loud. this is bizarre. you're all, 'la la la!' with, with the magic, and the not talking, like everything's normal, when we all know that tara up and left you and now everyone's scared to say anything to you.
scene direction: anya pauses, smiles
anya: except me.
scene direction: anya looks at xander
anya: is this that thing i do that you were commenting-
scene direction: anya xander nods
willow: guys ... it's okay. it's hard ... but i-it's better this way. little things just ... starting taking over, things that didn't matter, but we saw them differently, so ... they got blown out of proportion.
scene direction: willow shot of buffy and xander listening
willow: and, this time away will help us sort through things. really. now, let's just keep working on this. i don't wanna leave amy alone in the house so long.
xander: amy, is she ... how is she adjusting?
willow: it's hard to say. it's a lot to take in. i keep expecting her to do, like, ratty stuff, you know, licking her hands clean, shredding newspaper, leaving little pellets in the corner.
buffy: let's definitely not leave her alone in the house too long.
scene change: cut to close shot of the diamond sitting on a piece of black velvet.
jonathan: i didn't know it'd be so sparkly.
andrew: it's so big.
warren: yes, gentlemen, it turns out, size is everything.
scene direction: warren puts hand on jonathan's leg
warren: no offense, man.
scene direction: jonathan smacks him. we see that they're in the basement lair, sitting and looking at the diamond on a card table.
andrew: it makes colors with the light.
scene direction: the others stare at him for a moment.
warren: all right, i think we've finished the first part, now it's time for phase two.
scene direction: they all get up.
warren: is the van fired up?
jonathan: check.
scene direction: they go to the bulkhead but it slams open before they reach it. spike is there, glaring in at them. the geeks stare in alarm, back away.
scene direction: spike comes down into their lair with a menacing expression. the geeks continue to back up.
andrew: hello, it's called knocking.
scene direction: spike backs warren up against a pole.
spike: knock knock, robot boy.
scene direction: spike knocks on warren's head
spike: need you to look at my chip.
jonathan: is that like, british slang or something? 'cause we're not-
spike: in my head, the chip in my head.
warren: we're kind of in the middle of something.
spike: well, you can play holodeck another time. right now, i'm in charge.
warren: yeah, what are you gonna do if we don't especially feel like maybe playing your-
scene direction: spike turns around, sees a display of action figures, reaches for it.
warren: what are, wait, what are you doing?
scene direction: spike picks up the boba fett action figure, removing it from its display stand.
spike: examine my chip, or else mister...
scene direction: spike looks at the label on the stand
spike: ...fett here is the first to die.
scene direction: spike holds the action figure in one hand and takes its head in the other hand as if he's going to pull the head off. the geeks are extremely nervous.
jonathan: hey, all right, let's not, let's not do anything crazy here.
andrew: that's a limited edition, 1979 mint condition boba fett.
scene direction: spike grins, pretends to pull the head off.
warren: all right, dude ... chill. you can still make it right. you know you don't wanna do this.
spike: what i want ... is answers, nimrod.
warren: right. but you don't wanna hurt the fett, 'cause man, you're *not* comin' back from that. you know, you don't just do that and walk away.
spike: that right? let's find out.
scene direction: spike fakes pulling the head off again. warren yells in alarm.
warren: wah, uh, one second.
scene direction: warren pulls the other geeks aside.
andrew: dudes, i think that's spike.
jonathan: of course it is, and he's evil. completely capable of removing that head.
warren: i'm gonna help him out.
jonathan: are you sure we can trust him? i mean, we all have heads too.
warren: see, we help him, and he owes us one. see, we get spike on our side, we get info on buffy. and maybe, maybe we can even find a way to keep her out of phase two.
andrew: jonathan's right, can we trust him?
warren: 'course not. but alliances aren't about trust. see, he needs us, we need him.
scene direction: warren nods
warren: well, that's how these things work.
scene direction: in the background we see spike pacing, playing with the action figure.
warren: i think we're ready. agreed?
jonathan: agreed.
scene direction: andrew looks over at spike. shot of spike tossing the action figure in the air and catching it.
scene direction: andrew to warren
andrew: do what you need to do.
scene direction: warren turns back to spike.
warren: i think we can work something out. i'll take a look at your chip. it'll be a deal. we scratch your back, you scratch-
spike: i'm not scratching your anything. you do what i tell you, that's the deal. deal?
scene direction: warren sighs
warren: deal.
spike: then let's go.
scene direction: spike tosses the action figure to andrew as spike and warren move off. andrew catches it, and he and jonathan look anxiously at it.
andrew: oh! it's okay, it's okay. it'll be fine.
scene change: cut to the summers house. willow enters, looks around, goes into the living room.
willow: amy?
scene direction: amy peeks out of the kitchen.
amy: oh god, you're back.
scene direction: amy hurries over
amy: i thought you said you wouldn't be gone that long.
willow: i wasn't. i mean, i thought it was-
amy: let's go somewhere.
willow: don't you wanna go see your dad?
scene direction: amy twitchy
amy: no. can't. not yet. too many questions.
scene direction: willow nods
willow: about where you were.
amy: no, about how i got there.
scene direction: amy pauses
amy: i wish there was a way that i could make him forget about the last three years.
willow: oh, well hey, i can help you with that. only, you might wanna sew your name into your clothes first or something.
scene direction: willow puts her bag down
amy: no ...
scene direction: amy crosses arms over her chest
amy: i just don't wanna deal with him right now. i think i would be...
scene direction: amy pauses, looks at willow
amy: ...bored.
scene direction: willow nods
willow: well.
amy: come on, let's get outta here.
scene direction: willow uncertain
willow: oh, well, what do you wanna do?
amy: i don't know. something fun. anything ... not involving a big wheel.
scene direction: amy willow smiles a little
amy: or ... maybe ... you'd rather sit home all night, alone, like in high school.
willow: no!
scene direction: willow stands up
willow: no, you know what? i can have fun. heck, i, i deserve some fun.
amy: yeah you do!
willow: i can party! not like i owe anyone anything. i am totally free.
scene direction: willow nods
willow: so, let's make with the fun.
scene direction: they turn and walk off.
scene change: cut to the lair. warren fiddles with an electronic device, then turns to spike who is lying on his back on a table. spike has his hands behind his head and numerous wires attached to his head. warren moves the device over spike's head. pan across the table to reveal a book open to a page that shows a diagram of the human brain. there's also a disconnected robot arm.
scene change: cut to later. andrew, jonathan, and spike sit in chairs side-by-side on a slightly raised platform.
andrew: you're english, right?
scene direction: spike frowns at him suspiciously
spike: yeah.
andrew: i've seen every episode of doctor who.
scene direction: andrew spike continues frowning
andrew: not red dwarf, though, 'cause, um...
jonathan: 'cause it's not out yet on dvd.
andrew: right. it's not out on ...
scene direction: andrew weakly
andrew: dvd.
scene direction: spike scowls at them.
scene direction: spike yells
spike: warren!
scene direction: warren appears from another room holding a pile of paper.
warren: here i am, here.
spike: bloody hell. get on with it then.
scene direction: warren hands spike the papers. spike looks at them.
spike: help me out here, spock, i don't speak loser.
scene direction: spike gives papers back
warren: okay, right, um ... your chip works fine, yeah.
scene direction: spike frowns
spike: there's gotta be something wrong-
warren: no, no, listen. i don't know what that thing does ... i'd like to...
scene direction: warren leans closer
scene direction: spike leans back
spike: hey.
warren: but whatever it is, it works fine. there's no deterioration of the signal, it still is coming through on a steady pulse. which it's supposed to.
scene direction: spike stands up, gets in warren's face, towers over him on the platform, very menacing.
spike: if you're lying to me-
warren: no! it's all right here. i, i mean, it is. it's really not that hard to figure out, if you just...
scene direction: warren sees spike frowning
warren: what?
scene direction: spike frowns, ponders deeply. gives a small smile. looks at warren.
spike: you tell anyone about this...
warren: no, i promise. who would i tell, i don't even know what this is about!
spike: it's about the rules having changed.
scene direction: spike steps down from the platform and heads for the door.
spike: everything's different now.
scene direction: he gets to the stairs leading out, starts up them.
scene direction: spike to himself
spike: nothing wrong with me. something wrong with her.
scene direction: he smirks and exits. blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the foyer of the summers house. dawn and tara enter.
scene direction: dawn calls
dawn: hello! we're home!
tara: looks like no one's here.
dawn: well, i'm sure they'll be back soon. um, i know willow and buffy were meeting up with xander to do some research.
scene direction: dawn takes tara's arm and pulls her into the living room.
tara: well then i, i should really get back.
dawn: or, you can stay and wait for them.
scene direction: dawn sits on couch
dawn: then you can get a chance to catch up with ... everyone.
tara: yeah, i-i don't think that's such a great idea.
dawn: okay. your call.
scene direction: dawn picks up tv remote
dawn: i have the tv to keep me company until they get back.
scene direction: dawn begins channel-surfing. tara grimaces uncertainly.
scene direction: dawn innocently
dawn: you notice how it's been getting dark so much earlier these days?
scene direction: dawn sneaks a sly look at tara, who looks nervously at the windows.
scene direction: dawn giggles, indicates tv
dawn: talking cat.
scene direction: tara rolls her eyes, sighs, sits beside dawn.
tara: fine. i'll stay, but just until they get back. and only to make sure that you're not alone, this ... has nothing to do with ... anyone else.
dawn: sure. cool. up to you.
scene direction: dawn snuggles up to tara, puts her head on tara's shoulder. they both watch tv.
scene change: cut to the bronze. the group virgil is onstage, performing their song "vermilion borders".
male singer:
scene direction: low country wars
scene direction: oh, there's a demon
scene direction: she's drinkin' and thinkin'
scene direction: of runnin' away
scene direction: close shot of willow's face as she bends over. sound of billiard balls clinking. willow grimaces.
willow: i know. xander engaged, i couldn't believe it either.
scene direction: willow straightens up
amy: it's just so weird.
scene direction: amy bends over, sound of billiard balls
amy: so what's she like?
scene direction: willow shrugs
willow: thousand-year-old capitalist ex-demon with rabbit phobia.
scene direction: willow walks around amy
amy: well, that's so his type.
scene direction: willow nods agreement, bends over. we see that neither she nor amy is holding a pool cue. willow uses magic to make her shot, knocking a ball into the corner pocket. she straightens up.
scene direction: two guys walk over.
guy 1: hey.
scene direction: willow uninterested
willow: hey.
scene direction: amy smiling
amy: hey.
scene direction: the first guy leans over and whispers in amy's ear. willow watches.
amy: well, let's go then.
scene direction: amy to willow
amy: we're gonna go dance. do you wanna come?
willow: oh, uh, no, you go. i'll keep an eye on our drinks.
amy: okay. i mean, because, if you want something a little more your style...
scene direction: shot of the bar area. we see a very pretty dark-haired woman chatting with a blonde woman.
scene direction: willow turns around and sees them.
amy: i'm sure we can swing that.
scene direction: amy snaps her fingers, which makes a little green sparkle. the dark-haired woman looks over at willow.
scene direction: willow turns anxiously to amy.
willow: no, really, no.
scene direction: the woman gets up, walks over. the one she was talking to looks annoyed. the guys look interested.
scene direction: bree to willow, seductively
bree: hi. bree.
willow: willow. nice ... um ... top.
scene direction: willow turns to amy again.
scene direction: willow nervous
willow: no. thanks, but no.
amy: you sure?
scene direction: willow nods, looks at bree, then back at amy
willow: i'm not, she, i'm still-
amy: it's cool.
scene direction: amy snaps her fingers again. bree looks confused.
bree: oh, uh, sorry.
scene direction: bree walks back to where she was. the other girl looks outraged.
guy 1: so, uh, are we gonna go?
scene direction: amy to willow
amy: you sure you're gonna be okay?
willow: yeah, go. i'm all kinds of good.
scene direction: amy and the two guys go off to the dance floor, begin dancing together. willow stands watching.
male singer:
scene direction: i'm getting caught in the corners
scene direction: of her vermilion borders
scene direction: she's moving backwards and forwards
scene direction: and she's ugly when she's insecure
scene change: cut to later. willow sits by herself staring at a martini glass. she lifts out the plastic stirrer with an olive speared on it.
scene direction: close shot of the olive with its pimento filling.
willow: no use looking at me like that. it's the gullet for you, mister.
scene direction: she eats the olive.
scene direction: amy comes rushing over.
amy: hey! sorry, i kinda got caught up.
scene direction: amy drinks from another martini
willow: no, it's okay.
scene direction: amy puts down her glass, ponders.
amy: you know ... if rats could dance ... they probably wouldn't gnaw so much.
scene direction: willow smiles and nods.
scene direction: the two guys walk over again.
guy 1: hey, come on. we're just getting started.
scene direction: amy looks at willow
amy: i think i'm gonna sit this one out.
guy 2: nuh-uh! you can't, you can't just work us up like that and then just-
scene direction: the guy grabs amy's arm and pulls her away from the bar, but she pulls free.
amy: hey!
willow: i think she said no.
guy 2: well, nobody asked you ... ellen.
scene direction: the two guys snicker. amy and willow exchange a look, then look at the guys again.
amy: you wanna dance?
guy 1: that's all. nice, slow ... relaxing dance.
scene direction: amy and willow exchange another look, shrug, and both gesture at the guys. magical special-effect shoots from their hands to the two guys. willow's special-effect is dark orange, amy's green.
scene direction: suddenly the two guys disappear and reappear in dance-cages above the dance floor. they each wear just a skimpy loincloth. they both begin to dance although their faces look shocked and appalled.
scene direction: willow and amy watch with small smiles.
willow: gee.
amy: i think i do feel more relaxed.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. buffy, xander, and anya sit around the table looking at books.
xander: aha! i got it! uh, here's our villain right here!
scene direction: anya and buffy look, then both shake their heads. buffy returns to her book.
xander: what?
anya: that's a d&d manual, sweetie.
xander: no, but it could-
scene direction: xander looks at the book cover, laughs weakly
xander: oh.
anya: let's face it, we're not gonna find this thing because it doesn't exist. there's no such thing as a frost monster who eats diamonds.
buffy: well, maybe he doesn't eat them. you know, maybe he just ... thinks they're pretty.
scene direction: she nods hopefully for a moment, then stops, makes a face, slams her book shut.
buffy: we suck.
xander: we need new brains. what's up with willow?
buffy: out with amy, i guess.
anya: great, someone to do more magic with.
buffy: but at least she's not all cooped up and crying. that's forward momentum. now, i know that i don't ... know everything that happened with her and tara, but it-
xander: tara thinks willow is doing too much magic. and she's not the only one.
buffy: i know. but i-i think she'll be fine. you know, it's, it's willow. she of the level head.
anya: well, those are the ones you have to watch out for the most. responsible types.
buffy: right, she might go crazy and start alphabetizing everything.
anya: i'm serious. responsible people are ... always so concerned with ... being good all the time, that when they finally get a taste of being bad ... they can't get enough. it's like all
scene direction: anya gestures
anya: kablooey.
buffy: that's not true.
anya: okay, not kablooey, more like bam.
xander: it's human nature, buff. will's getting a taste of something powerful, way bigger than her.
anya: yeah, she was getting out of control with it before tara left, and now that she's gone...
xander: it's gotta be seductive.
scene direction: buffy looks up in alarm at the word 'seductive.' her eyes widen.
scene direction: xander os
xander: just giving in to it. going totally wild.
scene direction: buffy stares at him.
xander: we need to keep an eye on her.
buffy: okay. okay, we'll, we'll keep an eye. but we can't assume that everybody's getting seduced, you know, sometimes-
scene direction: the phone rings. buffy gets up to answer it. we see that she's wearing a gauzy white blouse with a long black leather skirt. she goes to the phone at the back of the room.
buffy: hello, magic box.
scene change: cut to spike standing at a pay phone.
scene direction: spike deep gruff voice
spike: slayer.
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: spike?
scene direction: spike deep voice
spike: meet me at the cemetery. twenty minutes. come alone.
scene direction: buffy still frowning
buffy: spike?
scene direction: spike rolls eyes, mutters
spike: bloody hell.
scene direction: spike normal voice
spike: yes, it's me.
buffy: you're ... calling me on the phone?
spike: just be there.
buffy: why? are you ... helping again?
scene direction: buffy shot of xander and anya listening. buffy speaks louder
buffy: you have a lead on this frost monster thingie?
scene direction: spike smirking
spike: something like that, yeah. thought you might be up for a little grunt work.
scene direction: buffy shocked
buffy: what?! no,
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: no-no grunting!
scene direction: spike grins
spike: i was talking shop, luv, but if you got other ideas ... you, me, cozy little tomb with a view...
scene direction: buffy makes a face, hangs up. spike continues grinning evilly, hangs up as well.
scene direction: buffy walks back over to the table.
xander: so, what did captain peroxide want?
buffy: nothing!
scene direction: buffy nervous
buffy: you know, he just, you know, wanted to see if i-i wanted to patrol, for, for the, the monster.
scene direction: buffy sits
buffy: but i, i told him that i ... would ... not.
scene change: cut to the street, later. buffy, anya, and xander emerge from the shop. buffy now wears a denim jacket over her blouse and skirt.
scene direction: anya locks the store. they walk down the sidewalk.
buffy: i'm telling you, i, i think there's something about this thing.
xander: well, i don't know, buff. it seems like we've been through every book.
anya: yeah, even the ones that weren't so boring you wanted to kill yourself.
xander: we have those?
scene direction: xander they stop walking
buffy: i'm just saying, all the things that have happened lately? okay, the, the bank robbery, the jewelry heist...
xander: the exploding lint.
buffy: i-is it me, or do these things seem really-
anya: lame?
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: well, i was gonna go with unusual, but, yeah.
scene direction: they all stand there shrugging at each other.
buffy: i don't know. you know, i'll do a quick patrol tonight, and after a good night's sleep, we can solve this tomorrow.
anya: optimism. i remember optimism.
xander: that's because you're like a thousand.
buffy: good night, guys.
anya and xander: good night.
scene direction: anya and xander go off in one direction, buffy in the other.
scene change: cut to buffy walking down a dark alley. spike steps out in front of her.
scene direction: spike angrily
spike: slayer.
buffy: and so my night is now complete.
spike: you never showed.
scene direction: buffy walks past him
buffy: sorry. little busy actually doing stuff.
scene direction: spike walks beside her
spike: you shouldn't be so flip, luv.
buffy: what are you gonna do, walk behind me to death?
spike: i'm just saying things might be a little different.
scene direction: spike walks around in front of her again. they stop walking.
spike: you oughta be careful.
scene direction: buffy shakes head
buffy: enough.
scene direction: she moves to walk around him, but he shifts to block her path.
scene direction: buffy small puzzled smile
buffy: get out of my way.
spike: or what?
scene direction: buffy shrugs, punches him in the face. spike reels a little, catches himself, pauses. then he hits her in the face, spinning her around. buffy straightens up, turns back to him.
scene direction: spike mockingly
spike: oh, the pain! the pain!
scene direction: spike grimly
spike: is gone.
scene direction: buffy stares.
spike: guess what i just found out. looks like i'm not as toothless as you thought, sweetheart.
scene direction: buffy alarmed
buffy: how?
spike: don't you get it? don't you see?
scene direction: spike sneering
spike: you came back wrong.
scene direction: buffy stares in disbelief. blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. buffy stalks forward angrily, punches spike in the face. he staggers back but laughs. buffy hits him again, kicks him, driving him farther down the alley. she goes to punch him but he grabs her arm and punches her with his other hand. buffy stumbles into a fence, turns around. spike gets up in her face.
buffy: it's a trick. you did something to the chip, it's a trick.
spike: it's no trick. it's not me, it's you. just you, in fact, that's the funny part.
scene direction: spike punches her in the face
spike: 'cause you're the one that's changed.
scene direction: spike punches again
spike: that's why this doesn't hurt me.
scene direction: he swings but buffy blocks and shoves him back.
scene direction: spike grins
spike: came back a little less human than you were.
scene direction: buffy shakes head
buffy: you're wrong.
scene direction: she kicks him hard. he flies back into the opposite wall, but immediately bounces back and comes back over to her.
spike: then how come you're so spooked, luv? and why can i -
scene direction: spike punches her
spike: do that?
scene direction: buffy slowly looks back over at him, panting.
buffy: you're wrong.
scene direction: she hits him again, even harder. he falls down, gets up, grinning. buffy hits him again and he goes down again, gets up again. she pushes him backward into a doorway, follows him up the stairs, grabs him. they crash through the door into the building.
scene change: cut to the bronze. the two guys are still almost-naked and dancing against their will in the cages.
male singer:
scene direction: what is wrong here?
scene direction: what is wrong here?
scene direction: what is wrong with you?
scene direction: we see amy and willow on the upper level, leaning on the railing looking down, smiling.
male singer:
scene direction: what is wrong here?
scene direction: what is wrong here?
scene direction: where is your head?
willow: you know, this music isn't quite...
scene direction: willow gestures. the male singer of virgil morphs into the female singer of halo friendlies. the other members of virgil morph into members of halo friendlies too in background.
female singer: i don't wanna be, i don't wanna be alone
backup singers: no no no!
female singer: i don't wanna go, i don't wanna go it alone
scene direction: amy and willow grin happily, look at the dancing boys.
female singer: every time i see you i can't find the words to say
scene direction: amy looks down at the lower level, makes a gesture. a white-clad demon(?) appears, floating over the dancers' heads.
female singer: i just wanna turn and run away
scene direction: willow makes a gesture at two guys standing side-by-side. one guy begins to shrink while the other grows very large, both looking around and yelling in confusion.
scene direction: amy makes a gesture and turns a bunch of dancers into sheep.
scene direction: willow and amy grin at each other.
scene direction: pan across the room with various bolts of magic swirling around, people floating in the air, etc. willow makes another gesture, grinning widely.
scene change: cut to the abandoned building. spike punches buffy in the face, hard. she punches him twice, then shoves him back. he stumbles back against the refrigerator -- we're in the kitchen of an abandoned house.
scene direction: buffy kicks spike and he flies back into the living room. it's mostly gutted with just one chair, a pile of bricks in the corner, etc.
scene direction: buffy strides into the room after spike, stands watching as he gets up.
scene direction: spike grinning
spike: oh, poor little lost girl.
scene direction: he jumps up, grabs the chandelier. swings forward on it and kicks buffy in the face with both his feet. she goes down.
scene direction: spike drops to the floor
spike: she doesn't fit in anywhere. she's got no one to love.
scene direction: he walks over to buffy, who gets up, grabs him, throws him against the staircase leading upstairs, smashing the banister to bits. buffy walks toward him.
buffy: me? i'm lost? look at you, you idiot!
scene direction: buffy spike getting up
buffy: poor spikey. can't be a human, can't be a vampire. where the hell do you fit in?
scene direction: spike swings at her but she ducks, punches him in the stomach, grabs him and throws him across the room again. he smashes into the fireplace. buffy walks toward him again.
buffy: your job is to kill the slayer. but all you can do is follow me around making moon eyes.
spike: i'm in love with you.
scene direction: buffy still advancing
buffy: you're in love with pain. admit it.
scene direction: buffy spike gets up
buffy: you like me ... because you enjoy getting beat down. so really, who's screwed up?
spike: hello! vampire!
scene direction: he swings at her again, but she blocks and punches him. spike grabs her, pulls her closer.
spike: i'm supposed to be treading on the dark side.
scene direction: he throws her against the wall. a big hole in the plaster where she hit. spike goes over to her, throws her across the room again. she lands on her back. spike stands over her, leans down, grabs her by the front lapels of her jacket.
spike: what's your excuse?
scene direction: buffy puts her hand over his face, shoves him away. he flies backward, taking a chunk out of a wall. he staggers to his feet.
scene direction: buffy leaps at him and they fly back toward the staircase.
scene change: cut to the bronze. willow and amy still stand looking down. the music continues. various people are floating around, bolts of magic randomly turning them into various costumes and such.
female singer: i can't find the time and place to say what i need to say...
willow: so, we've kinda played this scene.
amy: yeah.
scene direction: willow gestures
willow: return.
scene direction: the band turns back into virgil. everything else returns to normal too.
male singer: what is wrong with you?
scene direction: the two dancing guys reappear, fully clothed, by the pool tables. they stare at each other, then see some cute girls go by, and walk off in pursuit.
willow: i, i just keep thinking ... there's gotta be someplace, like, bigger than this.
scene direction: overhead shot of the room, now back to normal with people dancing and such.
amy: besides, it's way too early to go home yet.
scene direction: willow smiles.
scene direction: cut back to the abandoned house. spike has buffy pinned against the stairs. he chuckles. buffy punches him. he punches her back, lifts her up to look in her face.
spike: i wasn't planning on hurting you.
scene direction: spike smirks
spike: much.
buffy: you haven't even come close to hurting me.
spike: afraid to give me the chance?
scene direction: buffy breaks his hold, throws him against a wall. another big hole in the wall where he hits. shot of cracks appearing in the wall.
scene direction: buffy grabs spike and pushes him up against the wall.
spike: you afraid i'm gonna-
scene direction: buffy shuts him up by kissing him. they kiss passionately. buffy slams her hand into the wall, creating another hole, to get her arm around spike's neck.
scene direction: shot of pieces of the ceiling separating from each other.
scene direction: buffy and spike move away from the wall, still kissing. spike slams buffy up against another section of wall. above their heads, cracks appear and widen, moving up toward the ceiling.
scene direction: more kissing. buffy shoves spike away, follows him as he stumbles backward across the room. she pushes him again and continues following. behind her, a huge piece of ceiling falls onto the spot where they were just standing.
scene direction: buffy shoves spike up against another wall, resumes kissing him. he lifts her up against him with her legs around his waist.
scene direction: buffy reaches her hand down between their bodies. sound of a zipper. more kissing.
scene direction: buffy lifts herself up and thrusts her body against spike's. spike looks shocked. they stare at each other for a moment. then buffy begins to move up and down, slowly, making an expression of pleasure.
scene direction: they resume kissing. spike turns them around and pushes buffy up against the wall. she reaches one arm up and grabs the wall behind her to steady herself. long shot of the two of them. the chandelier falls from the ceiling, smashes on the floor.
scene direction: pieces of the house continue to fall down, floorboards breaking apart. buffy and spike continue kissing and, you know, moving against each other. more stuff falls from the ceiling, walls disintegrating, etc.
scene direction: buffy leans her head back against the wall, gasping and panting. spike rests his head on her chest.
scene direction: buffy leans forward to wrap her arms around spike and they fall backward. the entire floor gives way and they fall through to the basement level, landing there in a huge cloud of debris and dust and bricks, etc. spike lands on his back with buffy on top of him.
scene direction: they stare into each other's eyes, both panting.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon.
scene direction: the end