scene direction: episode opens on buffy walking slowly through a dark room, looking around cautiously. sounds of dripping water. buffy frowns, continues looking around. we see stairs in the background; she's in a basement.
scene direction: she notices something, looks satisfied, walks over and stares upward. we see she's holding a wrench.
buffy: so. we meet at last, mister drippy.
scene direction: pan wider to reveal a pipe that's dripping water. stairs to above are in the background. buffy raises the wrench, climbs up on something and begins fitting the wrench to the pipe.
scene direction: dawn appears from above, comes halfway down the stairs and sits on them.
dawn: want me to call a plumber?
scene direction: buffy turning wrench with great effort
buffy: no.
dawn: you sure?
buffy: yes.
scene direction: dawn holds up cordless phone
dawn: got the number.
scene direction: buffy turns to face dawn, exasperated.
buffy: dawn, i'm on it, okay?
scene direction: dawn shrugs skeptically.
scene direction: buffy gives the pipe one last twist. the dripping stops. buffy smiles with satisfaction.
buffy: ah.
scene direction: a beat. groaning noises.
scene direction: suddenly water begins to spray from a dozen different places all over the basement. several jets of water spray directly on dawn, soaking her. dawn shrieks and runs up the stairs. buffy stands still, sighs.
buffy: there. all better.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on the kitchen, day. dawn stands at the door to the basement, looking down. sound of running water.
dawn: man. how much water can they fit in one set of pipes?
scene change: cut to wider shot. we see willow at the center island pouring a bowl of cereal, tara moving around the kitchen. in the foreground we see buffy staring at the sink as if mesmerized.
tara: if i understand right? the entire city water supply.
willow: it's like little clown cars in the circus.
scene direction: dawn sitting at the island
dawn: told you we should have called the plumber.
scene direction: buffy still staring
buffy: you were right. the plumber will make everything good.
scene direction: close shot of what buffy's staring at. it's the kitchen sink. the faucet is running. the water drains out normally.
scene direction: buffy continues to watch the water flow.
tara: dawnie, you're not eating breakfast?
scene direction: dawn looks around at the food, makes a face.
scene direction: buffy still mesmerized by the faucet
buffy: dawn, breakfast is the most important meal of the day.
scene direction: dawn looks over at buffy. shot of buffy's back (dawn pov).
scene direction: buffy still distractedly
buffy: it's unbelievably important. you should eat breakfast at least three times a day.
scene direction: another shot of the running water.
scene direction: willow comes over and turns off the faucet, gives buffy a concerned look. buffy looks at her.
dawn: i'll, um, grab something before school.
scene direction: dawn tara nods
scene direction: xander and another guy emerge from the basement. all the women turn to look at them.
xander: and a big sunnydale round of applause for tito the amazing, plumber extraordinaire.
tara: so how's everything looking down there?
xander: like we should start gathering up two of every animal.
tito: basically, your pipes are shot. i mean, the whole system's gonna have to be replaced. what you need is a full copper re-pipe job.
scene direction: willow comes over and tito gives her a piece of paper.
willow: full copper re-pipe? that sounds potentially pricey.
tito: well, if you have any questions, our number's on the invoice.
scene direction: tito pats xander on the shoulder and exits. dawn goes over to willow, looks at the invoice before willow pulls it away.
dawn: that's a weird phone number. oh, wait.
scene direction: dawn to xander
dawn: is that the bill?
xander: hey. tito cut you a good deal down there. those are his bargain prices. i did a little haggling for you.
buffy: thank you. so we'll pay him, what's the big deal?
scene direction: the others exchange looks.
willow: um ... buffy, i-i know you're still getting back on your feet after...
buffy: lying flat on my back?
willow: yeah. uh, but there's some money stuff we're gonna have to talk to you about.
scene change: cut to the living room. buffy sits on the sofa looking at piles of paper all over the coffee-table. she has some more paper in her hands. she gives a disbelieving laugh and throws the papers down.
buffy: okay ... so you're telling me i'm broke?
scene direction: we see tara and willow sitting across from buffy, with dawn in the background.
willow: not yet, but ...
tara: money's definitely becoming an issue.
xander: as in your being almost out of it.
scene direction: we see xander sitting beside willow and tara. anya sits at a desk off to the side, writing something.
buffy: but i haven't spent any money. i was all ... dead and frugal.
willow: i-i know, this comes as a bit of a shock after ... a bit of a shock, but ... it took us by surprise too.
tara: your mother prepared everything really well. she had insurance ...
scene direction: tara nervously
tara: life insurance.
xander: which should have left you covered, but ... hospital bills.
willow: pretty much sucked up all the money.
anya: which you're still hemorrhaging, by the way.
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: how am i doing that?
anya: no, not you, the house. uh, see, this house, just sitting here, doing nothing, um, by itself costs money.
scene direction: dawn worried
dawn: so, what do we do?
buffy: easy. we burn the house to the ground and collect the insurance.
scene direction: buffy dawn continues looking worried
buffy: plus, fire? pretty.
scene direction: everyone stares at her.
buffy: you guys, i'm kidding. okay, it's, it's bills, it's money. it's pieces of paper sent by bureaucrats that we've never even met. it's not like it's the end of the world.
scene direction: she thinks about that for a moment.
buffy: which is too bad, you know, 'cause that, i'm really good at.
scene direction: dawn still looks worried.
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: i'll take care of this. i promise. i ... just don't know how yet.
scene direction: anya looks like she really wants to say something. she pauses, takes a deep breath, speaks too loudly.
anya: i know how.
scene direction: everyone looks at her.
anya: um ... i-i-if you wanna pay every bill here, and every bill coming, and ... have enough to start a nice college fund for dawn?
scene direction: anya big smile
anya: start charging.
scene direction: buffy irritated
buffy: for what?
anya: slaying vampires!
scene direction: anya xander looks embarrassed
anya: well, you're providing a valuable service to the whole community. i say cash in.
scene direction: awkward pause. xander still looks uncomfortable. anya doesn't pick up on it.
scene direction: buffy carefully
buffy: well, that's an idea ... you would have. any other suggestions?
scene direction: anya softly
anya: well, i mean, it's, it's not *so* crazy.
dawn: yes it is! you can't charge innocent people for saving their lives.
anya: spiderman does.
dawn: he does not!
anya: does too.
dawn: does no-
scene direction: dawn stops herself, calms down a little.
dawn: xander?
scene direction: anya looks at xander. he continues looking uncomfortable.
scene direction: xander reluctantly
xander: action is his reward.
scene direction: dawn gives anya a "told you so" look. anya looks annoyed, stands up.
scene direction: anya angrily
anya: why don't you ever take my side?
scene direction: she exits.
xander: what are you talking about, taking your side? anya, i *am* your side!
scene direction: xander runs out after anya. willow watches them go with a small smile, then turns to buffy.
willow: you're throwin' away a gold mine.
scene change: cut to the street. anya strides angrily down the sidewalk. xander comes down the steps and hurries after her.
xander: come on! wait up. anya!
scene direction: he runs in front of her.
xander: what's wrong with you?
anya: why don't you ask your best friend spiderman? you know, if you're not going to support me-
xander: i'm supportive! i'm totally supportive! i'm a flying buttress of support!
anya: no you're not.
scene direction: she looks down. xander sighs.
xander: this is because i haven't told them yet about the engagement, isn't it?
scene direction: anya scoffs
anya: no. maybe. yes!
scene direction: anya whines
anya: it's painful and confusing! i mean, first you, you give me this beautiful ring
scene direction: anya holds up the box with the ring in it
anya: ...and then i can't even wear it in public. i mean, do you know how depressing that is?
xander: anya, i promise, your waiting days are almost over. i, i know it's frustrating ... but the way i understand this marriage thing, it's kind of a forever deal.
anya: not if you never get started.
scene direction: anya softly
anya: i mean, don't you want to get married?
xander: yes.
anya: so then why won't you tell them?
scene direction: xander sighs, gestures
xander: because ... i'm still getting used to the miracle of a steady paycheck. and getting out of my parents' house. and this ... this husband thing ... it's a big step. or ... a lot of little ones. and ... and i love you so much ... i just want ... every step to be just right.
scene direction: anya hopefully
anya: really?
scene direction: he nods. anya walks up close to him and kisses him. they put arms around each other and continue kissing for a long moment. suddenly anya pulls away.
scene direction: anya yells
anya: hey! you tricked me! just now, w-with your fancy talk and, and lips! you keep doing this, and i keep forgetting, and you keep stalling!
scene direction: she turns and stalks off angrily.
xander: anya!
scene direction: anya continues walking
anya: when are you going to grow up, xander?
scene direction: xander stares after her.
buffy voiceover: there's a first time for everything is my philosophy.
scene change: cut to buffy sitting in an office. there are glass windows through which we can see people moving around. buffy wears a conservative skirt-suit and her hair is pulled back in a neat bun. she smiles widely. the next series of sentences are intercut together in separate takes.
buffy: this is my first big loan.
scene direction: (cut)
scene direction: collateral? no problem.
scene direction: (cut)
scene direction: no problem.
scene direction: (cut)
scene direction: no problem.
scene direction: (cut)
scene direction: i love that tie.
scene direction: (cut)
scene direction: i'm a problem solver.
scene direction: (cut)
scene direction: let's crunch those numbers!
scene direction: the final cut finds her staring down at herself looking annoyed.
scene direction: buffy mutters
buffy: stupid skirt.
scene direction: she turns as a man enters the office. buffy puts on her biggest smile, stands.
buffy: hello.
mr. savitsky: sorry to keep you waiting. carl savitsky. loan officer.
scene direction: he sits behind the desk across from buffy. she sits also.
buffy: buffy summers. loan applier-for.
scene direction: he smiles but doesn't seem amused. buffy plunges on.
buffy: i, i didn't know exactly what you would need, so, um, i brought everything.
scene direction: buffy hands him a thick folder
buffy: i'm very responsible in that way.
scene direction: he begins looking through the papers in the folder.
mr. savitsky: okay. i don't think i'll need this ... or these. old report cards, definitely not.
scene direction: buffy smiles nervously. he continues looking at the papers, putting most of them aside.
buffy: so ... about my getting a loan.
mr. savitsky: yes, well, uh, it looks as if, financially, uh, we have a bit of a tangle.
buffy: i know. and i figured you could just, you know, cut through that tangle with scissors. you know, where the loan is the scissors?
scene direction: buffy makes scissors motion with her hand
scene direction: mr. savitsky still not amused
mr. savitsky: ms. summers, the only collateral you have is your house, which was never fully leveraged, and has been losing equity over the last several years. for some reason, sunnydale property values have never been competitive, and ... re-financing's out of the question...
scene direction: buffy's face falls as she realizes the news is bad. he gives her a little sympathetic smile.
buffy: are you saying you won't give me my loan?
mr. savitsky: well, the problem is, you have no income. no job.
scene direction: suddenly the body of another man crashes through the glass window and lands on the desk. sounds of screaming. broken glass everywhere.
scene direction: buffy jumps up, looks out at the main bank area. people are running around screaming. a large demon stands in the middle of the room. he gives a loud roar.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: no job?
scene direction: buffy pouts
buffy: i wish.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. the demon is roaring and throwing people around.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: hey!
scene direction: the demon turns around to find buffy behind him.
buffy: are you in the wrong line?
scene direction: buffy points
buffy: that's for deposits,
scene direction: buffy points
buffy: that's for withdrawals, and this one ... is for getting kicked in the face.
scene direction: she goes to kick the demon but can't move her legs. pan down and we see that her long, tight skirt is restricting her movements.
scene direction: buffy worried
buffy: stupid skirt.
scene direction: the demon hits her, hard. she goes flying back through the glass-less window and lands on mr. savitsky's desk. mr. savitsky pokes his head up from hiding behind the desk.
scene direction: buffy sees a pencil-holder on the desk with only one thing left in it.
buffy: may i?
scene direction: mr. savitsky nods. buffy takes out the letter-opener. she uses it to cut a slit in her skirt, freeing her legs. puts the letter opener back and gets up.
scene direction: the demon comes forward and buffy kicks him back. she blocks a couple of punches, kicks him again. he surges right back and she blocks a couple more punches, ducks another punch, punches him in the face.
scene direction: fight noises continue as we see a close-up of someone's hands grabbing the money out of the teller drawers and putting it in a bag. we don't see the person's face, just the hands.
scene direction: cut back to the fight. buffy raises her hands to swing, and the demon grabs her, lifts her up onto his shoulder. she kicks and hits his back as he carries her.
scene direction: suddenly we hear a gunshot. both buffy and the demon look over to a bank security guard standing there pointing his gun at them. he looks very nervous.
guard: put the girl down.
scene direction: the demon throws buffy at the guard. she crashes into him and they both fall to the ground. as buffy gets up to a sitting position, we see a couple of other male customers attacking the demon and getting quickly beaten up. buffy picks up the gun.
scene direction: buffy to guard
buffy: these things? never helpful.
scene direction: she tosses the gun away. in the background the demon is still fighting off various other people. the gun hits the floor and goes off. buffy and the guard duck.
scene direction: the demon runs for the door, shoving another guy into buffy's path as she tries to pursue him. by the time she gets the guy out of her way, the demon has escaped. buffy stares after him in frustration. then she gives a determined frown.
scene change: cut to mr. savitsky's office. buffy storms in, puts her hands on the desk which is still covered with broken glass.
scene direction: buffy panting
buffy: now, about my loan.
scene direction: mr. savitsky slowly raises his head to look at her. he's still hiding behind the desk.
buffy: i'm not saying i'm charging you for saving your life or anything, but ... let's talk rates.
scene direction: mr. savitsky looks at her.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the magic box, night.
scene direction: willow o.s.
willow: he still turned you down?! that's crazy!
scene change: cut to inside. buffy is punching the punching bag while willow sits nearby talking.
willow: i mean, even if the bank did get robbed, which, you battling demons couldn't possibly know ... you would think there would be some kind of reward.
scene direction: buffy continues hitting the bag hard and fast.
willow: but no, they're like, "oh, we're not gonna give you money unless you prove you don't need it." i mean, what kind of system is that?
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: you're asking the wrong gal.
scene direction: she resumes punching.
scene direction: willow surprised
willow: hey.
scene direction: willow gets down, goes over to her
willow: buffy, you're mad.
scene direction: buffy stops punching
buffy: you noticed.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: it'll pass.
scene direction: buffy resumes punching
willow: no! anger ... is a big, powerful emotion you should feel.
scene direction: buffy stops punching
buffy: well ... that's good then.
scene direction: buffy stands there, steadying the punching bag with her hands. she shrugs.
buffy: it's gone now.
willow: okay ... uh, let me make you mad again. uh ... ready? um ...
scene direction: willow thinks, gets an idea
willow: last semester, i slept with riley.
scene direction: buffy gives her a dubious look.
buffy: and you know i really doubt it.
willow: caught me. big fib. to ... cover up the sleazy affair i had with angel.
scene direction: willow smiles proudly
scene direction: buffy frowning
buffy: will ... what the hell are you doing?
willow: pissing you off.
buffy: yes, true. why?
willow: well, 'cause, you know, since you've ... been back, you haven't exactly been big with ... the whole range of human emotions thing.
scene direction: buffy blankly
buffy: what do you mean?
scene direction: willow fidgets
willow: well, you haven't ... no, i mean it's just, um ...
scene direction: willow buffy still looks blank. willow gives up
willow: you know, this is really ... my problem.
scene direction: willow backing away
willow: i'm just, i'm all over the place and, you should just, uh, forget i even said anything, cause, cause,
scene direction: willow sits back down
willow: well, 'cause you know... banks, man.
scene direction: willow nods agreement with herself, looks at buffy for agreement. buffy just returns to punching.
scene direction: anya o.s.
anya: don't be such a wiener dog.
scene change: cut to the main magic shop room. anya and xander sit at a table with books open in front of them.
anya: look at them.
scene direction: anya shot of tara and dawn at the other side of the room, making a pile of books
anya: researching demons for the billionth time. they could use a ... peppy boost of happy news.
scene direction: xander nods, nervously
xander: you're right. i'll tell them.
scene direction: he stands up halfway, reconsiders, sits back down with a glance toward the back.
xander: as soon as buffy and willow come in.
scene direction: anya exasperated
anya: chicken.
xander: would you stop?
anya: dare you.
xander: anya. if i tell them we're engaged right after you dared me to ... wouldn't you always wonder if that's the only reason i did it?
scene direction: anya thinks about this, realizes he's right.
anya: oh.
xander: score one for captain logic.
anya: no, no. captain logic is not steering this tugboat. i smell captain fear at the wheel!
scene direction: anya lowers her voice as tara and dawn move toward them
anya: god, i hate this. this tone in my voice? i dislike it more than you do, and i'm closer to it!
scene direction: tara and dawn come over to the table and put down some more books. tara sits.
dawn: oh come on, tara. i am so old enough to do research. do you really think i'm not mature enough?
tara: i think you're very mature for your age ... but you're still only fifteen.
dawn: right, fifteen. as in *teen*ager. you know, if you don't let me look at the pictures, i'm gonna learn everything i know about demons on the street.
scene direction: tara sighs, hands her a book.
tara: knock yourself out.
dawn: thank you. see?
scene direction: dawn sits
dawn: no biggie. i can totally handle it.
scene direction: she opens the book and checks out the first page.
dawn: that's a weird place for a horn.
scene direction: she looks again, slowly closes the book.
scene direction: dawn quietly
dawn: that's not a horn.
scene direction: xander quickly
xander: you know, i still don't get it. i mean, what kind of a demon would rob a bank?
anya: the kind that wants money.
xander: what do you even call that?
dawn: this?
scene direction: she holds up a book, turned to a picture of a demon.
dawn: i'm guessing on how you say it. it's got an apostrophe. i think it's mmmfashnik. like "mmm, cookies."
xander: or maybe, muh-fashnik. like muh..
scene direction: xander lamely
xander: fashnik.
scene direction: buffy and willow emerge from the back room. dawn holds up the book toward buffy.
dawn: this your guy?
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: you do research now? want a cappuccino and a pack of cigarettes to go with it?
dawn: would you just look at the picture?
xander: doesn't exactly fit the profile for your typical bank robber.
buffy: maybe they turned down his loan application.
scene direction: buffy smiles at willow, then looks at dawn's book
buffy: that's him. big bad. this thing was strong, guys. no weapons that i could see, but ...
scene direction: buffy notices something across the room, stares that way as her mouth finishes the sentence on its own.
buffy: ... still ... real ... dangerous.
scene direction: the others turn to see what she's looking at.
scene direction: reveal giles standing by the door, holding a couple of suitcases, staring at buffy.
scene direction: buffy stares back. giles puts down his bags, comes forward. buffy walks forward until they are face-to-face.
scene direction: giles smiling
giles: oh god, buffy.
scene direction: he hugs her. she hugs him back, closes her eyes.
giles: you're alive. you're here. and you're still ...
scene direction: giles strained
giles: ...remarkably strong.
buffy: huh? oh.
scene direction: buffy lets him go
buffy: sorry.
giles: willow told me, but i didn't really let myself believe ...
buffy: i take a little getting used to. i'm still getting used to me.
giles: it's, uh ... you're ...
buffy: a miracle?
giles: yes. but then, i always thought so.
scene direction: giles puts his hand on buffy's cheek and looks at her fondly. the others watch, smiling.
scene change: cut to the street, night. the m'fashnik demon walks along, growling softly.
scene change: cut to the workout room. giles and buffy stand facing each other, a little awkward.
giles: so ...
scene direction: giles punches the punching bag lightly
buffy: i can start. how was england?
scene direction: buffy sits
buffy: how was ... life?
giles: uh, i'm not really sure how to answer that. um, well, i arrived home, i, uh, met with the council.
buffy: always a good time.
giles: yes. otherwise, there's, uh, nothing really to report. i, um, i keep a flat in bath. i, i, uh, met with a few old friends. almost made a new one, which i think is ... statistically impossible for a man of my age.
scene direction: he takes off his jacket, tosses it onto the sofa.
buffy: and now you're back.
giles: yes.
buffy: wow. giles, are you miserable about it, or just really british?
scene direction: giles smiles, takes off his glasses
giles: i can't lie to you, buffy.
scene direction: giles sits beside her
giles: um ... leaving sunnydale was, uh, was difficult. and, uh, coming back was...
buffy: i'm guessing the word is "inconvenient"?
giles: no. bewildering.
scene direction: buffy looks down. giles puts a hand on her shoulder.
giles: and how are you? really? you look tired.
buffy: me? nah. fine.
scene direction: giles gives her a look and she drops the act.
buffy: i mean, yeah, you know, sleeping's hard, but ... just because of the whole waking up in a box thing. so maybe waking up's the problem. you know, but just for a second. i sleep okay. great even. except, you know, for the dreams ...
scene direction: she trails off, looks away again.
giles: you seem to be doing remarkably well under extreme circumstances. i'm proud of you.
buffy: well, actually, it wasn't me. willow brought me back. i just lay there.
giles: you-you know -- i meant -
buffy: i know what you meant. it was just a little post-post-mortem comedy.
scene direction: giles smiles a little. buffy gets up.
buffy: well, i, i, uh, better start prepping. the slayage.
scene direction: she begins wrapping protective bandages on her hands. giles stands up too.
giles: yes, there is always that, isn't there?
scene direction: giles picks up his jacket
buffy: seems that way.
scene direction: giles looks at her, leaves.
scene change: cut to the main magic shop room. giles emerges from the back. the others are still sitting around the table, except anya, who is standing.
anya: giles!
scene direction: anya goes to giles and gives him a big hug. he smiles.
anya: we're so glad to see you. we missed you.
scene direction: anya pulls back to look at him
anya: you can't have the store back.
giles: i know.
anya: you signed papers.
giles: i did. and, do we have information on this new demon that i suddenly find so desperately interesting?
scene direction: giles gently moves anya aside and goes over to the table.
xander: that we do.
willow: this one robs banks.
giles: oh.
dawn: i found him.
scene direction: dawn gives giles the book
scene direction: giles looks at book
giles: m'fashnik. oh.
dawn: aha! like mmm, cookies.
giles: uh, no, quite different, actually.
tara: you know it?
giles: by reputation, yes. they, they come from a long line of mercenary demons that perform acts of slaughter and mayhem for the highest bidder.
xander: well, it is the american way.
giles: yes, but, uh, the question now becomes, what's out there powerful enough to control one of these things?
scene change: cut to a basement somewhere. the m'fashnik demon angrily shoves over a pile of boxes that look like they recently held computer or electronics equipment. he points a finger and speaks to someone we don't see.
demon: we had a deal. you got what you wanted. now give me what i want. the head of the slayer.
scene direction: now we do see who he's talking to the geek trio. they are jonathan (see episodes "earshot," "superstar," and others), warren ("i was made to love you"), and andrew. they sit on beanbag chairs, each holding a stack of money. behind them is a large tv. they look up at the demon in surprise.
warren: okay.
jonathan: sure.
andrew: we can do that.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. the demon paces back and forth in front of the geek trio.
demon: you hired me to create chaos and carnage for you. told me you were powerful men, commanding machines, magicks, the demon realms below.
warren: we are.
andrew: yuh-huh.
jonathan: we're like, super villains.
scene direction: they all laugh dorky super-villain laughs.
demon: which of you is the leader?
scene direction: andrew, jonathan, warren unison
andrew, jonathan, warren: i am.
demon: i will kill the leader.
scene direction: andrew, jonathan, warren unison, pointing at each other
andrew, jonathan, warren: he is.
demon: i will kill you all.
jonathan: wait! uh! no fair!
scene direction: jonathan gets up, goes over to confront the demon.
jonathan: it's not our fault the slayer was there. we said we'd pay you, and we're gonna.
scene direction: jonathan waves money in the demon's face. warren jumps up, comes over and goes to his knees beside jonathan. andrew does the same.
warren: yes! truly, lord jonathan is the wisest of us all.
andrew: uh, yeah, long live our noble lord and master.
jonathan: you guys suck.
scene direction: the demon grabs jonathan by the throat and lifts him off his feet.
demon: you can't pay me with paper, tiny king. you pitted me against the slayer. for that, i must kill you.
scene direction: andrew and warren snicker and grin at each other.
demon: then i will suck dry your bones and use them to beat your subjects to death.
scene direction: andrew and warren look alarmed, jump to their feet.
warren: whoa, whoa whoa whoa, big guy, hey, let's back things up a parsec, okay. you kill us ... everybody loses. you let us live, we give you...
demon: give me what?
scene direction: jonathan choking
jonathan: name it!
scene direction: the demon drops jonathan, who falls to the floor choking and gasping. he slowly straightens up.
warren: well, between the three of us, we can pretty much do anything.
jonathan: like, you want a spell to make you look super-cool to the other demons?
scene direction: jonathan grins
jonathan: i'm all over that action, my friend.
warren: or, just throwing it out there, robot girlfriend. huh? for those long, lonely nights after a hard day's slaughter?
scene direction: demon interested
demon: you can do this?
scene direction: jonathan and warren nod.
andrew: don't trust him. robo-pimp daddy's all mouth.
warren: shut up, andrew! you're just mad i wouldn't build you christina ricci.
andrew: you owe me, man.
warren: oh, or else what? you'll train another pack of devil-dogs to ruin my prom? ha! graduated!
andrew: that wasn't me! how many times do i have to say it? the prom thing was my lame-o brother, tucker.
jonathan: yeah, well tell him i was at that prom.
andrew: hello! screen-wipe, new scene.
scene direction: andrew makes screen-wipe gesture
andrew: i had nothing to do with the devil dogs. i trained flying demon monkeys to attack the school play. school play, dude!
scene direction: beat. warren and jonathan hold their angry looks for a moment, then break and grin at each other, nodding.
scene direction: warren grinning
warren: that was cool. that was kinda cool.
scene direction: jonathan laughs
jonathan: remember, everyone was like, "run, juliet!"
scene direction: they all grin, nod at each other, laugh their dorky laughs again.
scene direction: demon roars
demon: enough!
scene direction: the three geeks shut up, look scared. he advances on them, and they back up.
demon: nothing you can offer me will satisfy your debt to me. i don't want your toys, or your spells, flying monkey-demons.
scene direction: demon yelling
demon: i want the slayer dead!
scene direction: andrew nervous
andrew: okay.
scene direction: jonathan nervous
jonathan: done.
scene direction: warren nervous
warren: one dead slayer, coming up. um, could you just give us a minute?
demon: for what?
warren: well ... we just really wanna nail down the optimum method for us to wipe out the slayer for you.
scene direction: the geeks turn away to confer together.
demon: make sure it involves ... pain.
scene direction: the demon grins evilly.
scene direction: buffy o.s.
buffy: i know they're ... so cute you could die, but...
scene change: cut to the summers living room. buffy stands holding up a pillow to giles. the pillow case is decorated in bright kiddie patterns. on the coffee-table is a pile of similar sheets.
buffy: ...it's all i got.
scene direction: giles laughs
giles: think nothing of it. it's, it's, uh, whimsical.
scene direction: giles takes the pillow, tosses it onto the sofa. buffy begins unfolding a sheet.
buffy: they were mine when i was little. couldn't find the guest sheets.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: mom always did this stuff.
scene direction: buffy kneels, tries to fit the sheet onto the sofa.
buffy: they don't actually fit.
scene direction: giles leans over, helps to make the bed.
buffy: i blame the sofa.
scene direction: buffy stands
buffy: we need one of those pull-out kinds. the kind with no payments 'til two-thousand-and-infinity.
giles: what?
buffy: oh, it's ... just money stuff.
scene direction: buffy sits on coffee table
buffy: it turns out ... mom left me some, and while i was dead, it got squandered on luxuries like ... food and clothing.
scene direction: giles sits on sofa
giles: how bad is it?
buffy: anya says pretty bad. i'm kinda taking her word for it. actually, i'm kinda trying to not think about it.
giles: sound policy. at least for tonight.
buffy: figured i'd put it out of my mind. you know, take a break. get some perspective ... and then wake up at four a.m. terrified.
scene direction: buffy moves to sit on the sofa beside giles, holding the top-sheet against her chest. she sighs.
giles: buffy, perhaps you're putting too much pressure on yourself. i mean, to return from some ... unknown level of hell ... it's only natural that coming back ... will be a process.
buffy: in the meantime, i'm scaring people.
giles: well, that can take time, too.
scene direction: buffy stares into the distance as giles looks at her with concern.
giles: well, if it's any consolation, life can be ... pretty overwhelming even for people who haven't been ... where you have.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: i guess.
giles: look, tomorrow morning, you and i will sit down together and we'll go through everything. every bill, one by one. we'll work it out together.
scene direction: buffy looks at him. they gaze at each other.
buffy: i'm glad you're back.
giles: well, i'm glad you are too.
scene direction: giles reaches out to put a hand on her shoulder, but she stands up and walks off before he can touch her. giles sits there looking concerned, watching her go.
scene direction: jonathan o.s.
jonathan: are we really gonna kill her?
scene direction: cut back to the geek trio conferring in their basement lair.
jonathan: that's so sad.
scene direction: warren scornfully
warren: shut up, whine-athan.
andrew: but ... i, i don't want to kill buffy either.
jonathan: yeah, she saved my life a bunch of times! plus, she's hot.
warren: it's her or us. i mean, we have to do it.
andrew: we're talking about murder.
warren: no, we're talking about staying alive, and since this is my mom's house, i think what i say goes.
andrew: but aside from the moral issues, and the mess, we can get in trouble for murder.
warren: duh! you know, the last i checked, the authorities also frowned on bank robbery too. genius!
jonathan: i don't even know if we could kill buffy. she's got super-strength.
andrew: and, you know, killing people, this is not why we got together in the first place.
jonathan: yeah. we teamed up with one clear, super-cool mission statement. remember?
scene direction: flash-cut to the three of them in the basement, sitting around a table with cans of soda, playing a board game.
warren: so ... you guys wanna team up and take over sunnydale?
scene direction: andrew and jonathan look at each other, shrug.
scene direction: andrew and jonathan unison
andrew and jonathan: okay.
scene direction: flash back to the present.
warren: of course i remember. it was last month.
jonathan: then you know we have a mission!
scene direction: jonathan points
jonathan: shrink rays...
scene direction: we see what he's pointing at. it's a whiteboard labeled at the top "to do" and including the following items - control the weather, miniaturize fort knox, conjure fake i.d.s, shrink ray, girls, girls, the gorilla thing.
jonathan: ...trained gorillas. workable prototype jetpacks ... and chicks, chicks, chicks. i know that's the action i signed on for.
andrew: me too. ixnay on the urder-may.
scene direction: warren frustrated
warren: vote.
jonathan: okay. who's for not killing buffy?
scene direction: andrew and jonathan hold up their hands, making the star trek "vulcan salute." they both look at warren.
scene direction: long shot of the three of them. we see the demon in the background still pacing and waiting for them to finish.
scene direction: finally warren gives in and holds up his hand too.
andrew: agreed.
scene direction: they all look relieved, give each other nervous looks.
jonathan: so what are we gonna do about this mm'fashnik guy?
warren: ah, wait here. okay, i got an idea.
scene direction: warren goes over to the demon, puts his arm around the demon's shoulders turning him away from the other two. he reaches his other hand in his pocket and pulls out a piece of paper.
scene direction: warren whispers
warren: here's the slayer's name, address, and telephone number. you wanna kill her? make it so.
scene direction: the demon takes the paper with a low growl, leaves. warren pats him on the back, turns around and sees the others watching him. warren swaggers back over to them as they stare, impressed.
scene direction: jonathan awed
jonathan: how'd you make him do that?
andrew: what are you, some kind of ... jedi?
scene direction: warren casual
warren: the force can sometimes have great power on the weak-minded.
scene direction: andrew and jonathan nod and go "hmm" in awe.
scene change: cut to summers house, night. giles comes into the darkened kitchen with a towel over his shoulder.
willow: hey giles.
scene direction: giles comes in, not smiling.
scene direction: willow oblivious
willow: you have a good talk with buffy?
scene direction: willow takes a box of cookies or something from the cupboard, goes to sit by the island.
scene direction: giles closes the door behind him
giles: yes, now that she's back.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: isn't it awesome?
scene direction: giles goes over to the sink
giles: mmm.
scene direction: giles removes his glasses
giles: tell me about this spell you performed.
scene direction: willow excited
willow: oh, okay, first of all? so scary. like, the blair witch would have had to watch like this.
scene direction: she covers her eyes with one hand, peeks through parted fingers. then drops the hand and grins. giles looks grim. willow continues, not noticing his expression.
willow: and, and, and this giant snake came out my mouth and there was all this energy crackling, and this pack of demons interrupted, but i totally kept it together. and then, the next thing you know?
scene direction: willow triumphant
willow: buffy.
scene direction: she smiles proudly, takes out a cookie from the box and takes a bite. giles has his back to her, doing something in the sink.
scene direction: giles over his shoulder
giles: you're a very stupid girl.
scene direction: willow pauses chewing, slowly stops smiling and frowns.
willow: what? giles...
scene direction: giles turns to face her
giles: do you have any idea what you've done? the forces you've harnessed, the lines you've crossed?
willow: i thought you'd be ... impressed, or, or something.
giles: oh, don't worry, you've ... made a very deep impression. of everyone here ... you were the one i trusted most to respect the forces of nature.
willow: are you saying you don't trust me?
scene direction: giles intensely
giles: think what you've done to buffy.
willow: i brought her back!
giles: at incredible risk!
willow: risk? of what? making her deader?
giles: of killing us all. unleashing hell on earth, i mean, shall i go on?
willow: no!
scene direction: willow stands
willow: giles, i did what i had to do. i did what nobody else could do.
giles: oh, there are others in this world who can do what you did. you just don't want to meet them.
scene direction: giles turns away again
willow: no, probably not, but ... well, they're the bad guys. i'm not a bad guy.
scene direction: willow upset
willow: i brought buffy back into this world, a-and maybe the word you should be looking for is "congratulations."
giles: having buffy back in the world makes me feel ... indescribably wonderful, but i wouldn't congratulate you if you jumped off a cliff and happened to survive.
willow: that's not what i did, giles.
scene direction: giles angry
giles: you were lucky.
willow: i wasn't lucky. i was amazing. and how would you know? you weren't even there.
giles: if i had been, i'd have bloody well stopped you. the magicks you channeled are more ferocious and primal than anything you can hope to understand,
scene direction: giles even more angry
giles: and you are lucky to be alive, you rank, arrogant amateur!
scene direction: giles angrily grabs his towel and turns to leave.
willow: you're right.
scene direction: he pauses by the door, looks back at her.
willow: the magicks i used are very powerful. i'm very powerful. and maybe it's not such a good idea for you to piss me off.
scene direction: giles stares at her, then looks away. after a moment, willow relents.
willow: come on, giles, i-i don't want to fight. i ... let's not, okay? i'll think about what you said, and you ... try to be happy buffy's back.
scene direction: giles quietly
giles: we still don't know where she was ... or what happened to her.
scene change: cut to the back porch. buffy stands there, hugging herself. we see her from the back.
scene direction: giles o.s.
giles: and i'm far from convinced she's come out of all this undamaged.
scene direction: pan around to buffy's front. she just stands there, looking blank.
scene direction: suddenly a cigarette butt lands on the porch by buffy's feet. she looks down, puts out her foot and grinds it out.
scene direction: buffy not looking up
buffy: hello, spike.
scene direction: we see spike standing on the lawn.
spike: you hear all that noise?
scene direction: spike looks toward the kitchen door
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: just enough to make me feel crappy.
spike: you know watcher-boy doesn't mean anything by it.
scene direction: spike comes closer, steps onto the first stair. buffy shrugs.
buffy: i guess. everyone ...
scene direction: buffy long pause
buffy: they all care. they all care so much, it ... makes it all harder.
spike: i'm not sure i followed you around that bend, luv.
scene direction: spike steps onto second stair
buffy: i don't know. i just, i feel like i'm spending all of my time trying to be okay, so they don't worry. it's exhausting. and then, i...
scene direction: she trails off, makes a frustrated gesture and then clenches her hand into a fist.
spike: and that makes 'em worry even more.
scene direction: buffy looks at him, doesn't reply. spike walks the rest of the way up onto the porch, comes to stand next to her.
spike: you want me to take them out? give me a hell of a headache, but i could probably thin the herd a little.
scene direction: after a moment buffy smiles a little. spike looks pleased.
spike: knew i could get a grin.
scene direction: they exchange a look.
scene direction: buffy moves forward, sits on the top stair, sighs deeply. spike sits beside her.
buffy: why are you always around when i'm miserable?
spike: 'cause that's when you're alone, i reckon. i'm not one for crowds myself these days.
scene direction: they look at each other again.
buffy: me neither.
spike: that works out nicely then.
scene direction: they sit there quietly, staring out at the night. long shot of the two of them on the porch.
buffy: so what do you know about finances?
scene direction: spike looks at her.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the front of the house, night. the front porch light is on, and one light upstairs.
scene change: cut to inside. dawn comes down the stairs, wearing pajamas.
scene direction: giles o.s.
giles: dawn?
scene direction: we see giles in the living room, sitting on the sofa/bed, reading a book. he gets up.
giles: couldn't sleep?
dawn: not really. you?
scene direction: giles smiles, indicating his book
giles: evidently not.
scene direction: giles puts the book down
dawn: you ever try mixing parts of every cereal you got in one bowl?
scene direction: giles yawning
giles: does it work?
scene direction: dawn shrugs
dawn: gonna find out. wanna come join the experiment?
giles: i'm an ideal control group.
scene direction: giles walks closer to her
giles: i find as you get older, that you lose patience with...
scene direction: giles looks at something in the foyer
giles: ...throwing up.
scene direction: dawn turns to see what he's looking at. shot of the inside of the front door. the doorknob is rattling and turning.
scene direction: giles quietly
giles: is that locked?
scene direction: dawn nervous
dawn: it should be.
scene direction: suddenly the door smashes in, hitting dawn. she screams as she goes flying back into the dining room. the m'fashnik demon comes in, sees giles, backhands him. giles crashes into the stairs, smashing the banister, then falls to the floor.
scene direction: the demon turns, sees dawn, who is still lying on the floor, looking fearfully at him.
demon: you're not the slayer.
scene direction: dawn sits up and stares at him.
demon: but you'll do for a start.
scene direction: he lunges for her. close shot on dawn screaming.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. dawn continues screaming as the demon rushes at her. before he reaches her, buffy grabs him from behind and pulls him back to face her.
buffy: you're payin' for that door, buddy.
scene direction: she flings him into the living room. he lands on his back on the coffee-table, smashing it to pieces.
buffy: ooh!
scene direction: buffy winces
buffy: table!
scene direction: the demon gets up, holding a piece of the table. he looks at it, tosses it aside. it smashes a lamp on a side table.
demon: you have cost me, slayer.
buffy: i cost *you*? that's a designer lamp, ya mook!
scene direction: the demon charges her, grabs her around the waist and brings her to the floor in the dining room. she hits him, then kicks him off of her. he lands on the dining-room table, smashing some dishes. buffy gets up and the demon kicks her, she stumbles backward and knocks into a side table. a glass vase falls, and buffy catches it with both hands, looks at it in relief.
scene direction: the demon charges her again and she kicks him back while still holding the vase, then puts the vase carefully back on the table. she kicks the demon again and he falls back against the wall, smashing some picture-frames.
scene direction: spike appears and grabs the demon from behind, wrestles him back.
buffy: spike, no! i want him in the kitchen!
scene direction: spike holds the demon in the doorway and steps aside. buffy gives the demon a serious kick in the chest and he flies backward through the door into the kitchen, flies across the room and bangs into the door leading to the back porch. the glass part of the door shatters. the demon growls, swipes at buffy but she ducks and punches him.
scene direction: spike follows them into the kitchen and watches buffy hitting the demon. buffy gets the demon in a head-lock.
buffy: open the door!
scene direction: buffy spike looks confused
buffy: the basement! i'm taking him down.
scene direction: spike opens the door to the basement and buffy wrestles the demon through it. they both topple down the stairs, but buffy manages to grab the banister and stop her fall as the demon continues falling, landing with a splash.
scene direction: the demon gets up and we see that the basement is still flooded ankle-deep with water. buffy comes down the stairs and grapples with the demon again.
scene direction: they exchange a few punches. buffy grabs a pipe for support, then kicks the demon back.
scene direction: the demon looks up, grabs a piece of pipe along the ceiling and breaks it off.
scene direction: buffy angrily
buffy: no!
scene direction: water begins spraying again from the broken pipe.
scene direction: the demon tries to attack buffy with the pipe but she grabs it, kicks him in the groin and then hits him with the pipe. he goes down with a big splash.
scene direction: buffy begins hitting him with the piece of pipe, one stroke for each word.
buffy: full... copper... re-pipe! no... more... full... copper... re-pipe!
scene direction: finally she stops. the demon is floating face-down in the water.
scene direction: buffy drops the pipe into the water, looks up, sighs and pouts. walks over to where the pipe attached to the ceiling is still emitting a steady trickle of water. she stares at it unhappily.
scene direction: spike os
spike: whoa.
scene direction: we see spike standing at the top of the stairs staring down.
spike: did you know this place was flooded?
scene direction: buffy closes her eyes in frustration.
scene direction: warren o.s.
warren: i think we have a lot to feel good about.
scene change: cut to the three geeks' basement lair. the bank money bags are lying empty on the floor. the lair has been fully furnished with chairs, rugs, etc. it looks very posh. we see andrew setting up a periscope viewer, jonathan doing something at a display case, and warren fiddling with a piece of equipment that looks like a gun. electronics equipment everywhere.
warren: we got the money. we got the lair. and our one loose end has been taken care of ...
scene direction: warren lifts his weapon
warren: by the slayer.
scene direction: he pushes a button and flame shoots out of the thing he's holding.
warren: flamethrower's up.
scene direction: andrew manipulates the periscope controls. behind him, on the tv, we see the periscope image. it pans across grass to reveal a woman kneeling on the lawn.
andrew: periscope's working.
scene direction: jonathan closes the glass doors of the display case. a bunch of action figures are set up inside it.
andrew: it looks like your mom's weeding tulips again.
scene direction: jonathan turns away from the display case and folds his arms triumphantly.
jonathan: action figures? fully deployed.
scene direction: warren goes to sit in a chair, smiling.
andrew: i still can't believe it. we did it! we can do anything. we could stay up all night if we wanna.
scene direction: warren sarcastic
warren: whoa, whoa, whoa don't get all crazy on us, andrew.
scene direction: andrew pouty
andrew: i was only saying.
jonathan: what are we gonna do about buffy? you know sooner or later, the slayer's gotta come after us.
andrew: bring her on.
warren: we could, uh, we could hypnotize her.
andrew: make her our willing sex bunny.
scene direction: they all laugh their dorky laughs again.
jonathan: i'm putting that on the list!
scene direction: jonathan goes over to the white-board.
andrew: is this the life or what?
warren: mm.
andrew: i mean, here we got all the stuff we ever wanted...
scene direction: andrew we see jonathan writing "hypnotize buffy" on the to do list
andrew: and we didn't even have to...
warren: earn it?
andrew: exactamundo.
scene direction: jonathan turns away from whiteboard to face them
jonathan: it's true, my friends. the way i see it ... life is like an interstellar journey. some people go into hypersleep and travel at sub-light speeds...
scene direction: jonathan the others nodding agreement
jonathan: ...only to get where they're going after years of struggle, toil and hard, hard work. we, on the other hand ...
andrew: blast through the space-time continuum in a wormhole?
scene direction: they all nod and smile happily.
jonathan: gentlemen ... crime is our wormhole.
scene direction: jonathan lifts a cigar to his mouth with one hand, with the other hand a flaming piece of paper money. he lights the cigar and takes a triumphant puff.
andrew: but ... everyone knows...
scene direction: andrew jonathan frantically blowing out the fire on the bill
andrew: if the width of a wormhole cavity is a whole number of wavelengths, plus a fraction of that wavelength? the coinciding particle activity collapses the infrastructure.
scene direction: warren turns to face andrew. warren is wearing a virtual-reality headset that covers the whole top half of his face.
warren: dude. don't be a geek.
scene change: cut to interior summers house, day. dawn and willow sitting on the sofa trying to fit together the pieces of the broken lamp. pan across to show the destruction - front door standing open with a big hole in it, banister on the stairs broken, pieces of coffee table on the floor. xander sits across from the sofa, trying to fix the coffee table. in the background anya and buffy sit by a desk looking at papers. buffy's chair is held together with duct tape.
buffy: this is going to take forever, isn't it?
anya: not forever. just a very long time. uh, here it is.
scene direction: anya shows buffy some papers
anya: your first approximation of your spanking new debt.
scene direction: buffy stares at the paper in dismay
buffy: i've trashed this house so many times. how did mom pay for this?
xander: for starters, she saved money with this crappy-ass coffee table.
anya: well, there's always that charging option.
buffy: no! i will definitely ... probably not be doing that.
scene direction: giles and tara enter from the kitchen.
giles: well, i know i'm back in america now i've been knocked unconscious.
scene direction: giles tara hands him an ice-pack
giles: thank you.
buffy: aw. poor lumpy giles.
tara: what do you think the demon wanted, anyway?
scene direction: dawn jumps as the piece of lamp in her hands crumbles.
tara: i mean, aside from costing you a bundle.
buffy: don't know. now he's way too dead to answer that question. wish i knew who hired him.
willow: ooh, i could do a locator spell...
scene direction: giles looks up from holding the ice pack against his head, gives willow a look.
scene direction: willow stops smiling
willow: or not.
xander: that's it.
scene direction: xander drops the table leg
xander: four hours. i'm calling it, people. this coffee-table is gone.
scene direction: xander melodramatically
xander: damn it!
dawn: also, this lamp's in critical condition.
scene direction: dawn shot of buffy looking worried
willow: well, uh, let's take these things out to the trash and give 'em a decent throwin' out.
scene direction: willow, tara, xander, and anya pick up the various pieces of lamp and coffee-table, and exit. giles walks over to buffy, looking concerned. dawn watches them anxiously.
scene direction: giles sits next to buffy
giles: buffy?
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: i don't think i can do this.
giles: yes you can. your mother dealt with this sort of thing all the time.
scene direction: giles buffy looks up
giles: she took ... one crisis at a time ... without the aid of any superpowers ... and got through it all. so can you.
buffy: you sure?
giles: i'm positive.
scene direction: buffy looks slightly reassured. the phone rings.
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: who's calling me? everybody i know lives here.
scene direction: buffy walks toward kitchen
buffy: i'll be back.
scene direction: buffy exits into the kitchen.
scene direction: dawn to giles
dawn: i bet it's creditors. the hounding's begun. i read about it. so you think we'll starve?
giles: i very much doubt it.
dawn: no chance i'd have to quit school to work assembling cheap toys in a poorly-ventilated sweatshop?
giles: poorly-ventilated ... what have you been reading?
scene direction: buffy returns, walking quickly and purposefully toward the front.
giles: buffy, what is it?
scene direction: she turns back to face them, pauses for a moment before speaking.
buffy: angel.
giles: is he in trouble?
buffy: he knows that i'm ...
scene direction: buffy trails off. shot of dawn watching with concern
buffy: he, he needs to see me. i have to see him.
giles: yes, of course. you'll leave for l.a. tomorrow.
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: not l.a. and not here. somewhere in the middle. there's a, a place.
giles: i see. well, we should get all these ... bills and things out of the way before-
buffy: i gotta go now.
scene direction: she starts to leave, pauses and turns back again.
buffy: um, thanks for taking care of this for me.
scene direction: she exits, leaving dawn and giles staring at each other in dismay in the trashed living room.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon. the end