scene direction: episode opens in the foyer of the summers house, night. the front door opens and buffy comes in, holding a paper bucket under her arm. she tosses her keys on the side table.
scene direction: buffy calls
buffy: hello?
willow: buffy?
scene direction: willow's voice comes from the dining room. buffy turns in that direction.
buffy: oh. yep, it's me, and i brought dinner.
scene direction: buffy walks into dining room
buffy: deep fried chicken parts. hope you're...
scene direction: we see tara, giles, and dawn sitting around the table, and willow standing with a dish of food in her hands. they're clearly just finishing a meal. giles holds a half-full wine glass.
buffy: ...hungry.
scene direction: buffy disappointed
buffy: you already ate.
giles: no!
scene direction: giles embarrassed
giles: well, uh, yes, obviously.
dawn: uh, we didn't know when you'd be coming back.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: it's okay. more for me.
scene direction: buffy puts the bucket of chicken on the table and sits. willow sits also.
tara: i don't know about everybody else, but ... i would love some chicken.
giles: yes. as would i.
dawn: i'll take a drumstick.
willow: i'm a breast girl myself.
scene direction: willow quietly, to tara
willow: but, then again, you knew that.
scene direction: willow and tara exchange a smile. giles makes an "ew" face.
scene direction: they pass the bucket of chicken around the table.
scene direction: dawn awkwardly
dawn: so.
buffy: what so?
dawn: so ... how was it?
scene direction: dawn nervous
dawn: seeing angel ... him seeing you.
scene direction: dawn giles stands up
dawn: was it weird?
scene direction: buffy looks uncomfortable. dawn, tara, and willow look expectantly at her.
buffy: um ... it was ... intense.
scene direction: giles goes to the back of the room to do something at a side table.
willow: well, i-if you wanna talk about it...
buffy: i don't. i-it's ... not important. past. i'd just ... rather keep this one to myself, if that's okay.
dawn: sure, whatever.
giles: buffy, um, there was...
scene direction: giles sits back down
giles: some discussion in, uh, your absence a-about, um ... w-what you're gonna do now.
scene direction: giles has a pile of paper napkins, gives one to dawn.
giles: you know, um ... your plans.
buffy: oh, um, i've been giving that a lot of thought actually. i think i've figured it out, what i should do.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: that's good, that's good!
buffy: yeah. i figure, if i hold off paying the plumber, i can pay the utility bill.
scene direction: buffy willow and tara stop smiling
buffy: and then i can wait to re-shingle the roof until we get the refund back-
giles: um, i meant...
scene direction: giles buffy stops
giles: ...with your life.
buffy: oh. life plans. um ... well...
scene direction: the others continue to watch her.
buffy: i have no idea.
scene direction: dawn looks surprised.
buffy: i guess, um ... well, i, i left school, you know, when mom got sick, but i always figured i'd go back ... and then she...
scene direction: buffy trails off. willow and giles look sympathetic.
buffy: um, so i-i was thinking about re-enrolling, but i missed the registration cutoff. busy being dead and all.
scene direction: giles winces.
willow: well, if it's too late for late registration and too early for early, you can always come to classes with tara and me.
tara: right. y-you can audit for the rest of the semester until registration.
scene direction: buffy uncertainly
buffy: audit. i-i guess i could do that.
scene direction: willow and tara smile tentatively.
buffy: yeah, that ... sounds like a good plan.
scene direction: buffy looks across the table
buffy: what do you think, giles?
scene direction: giles nods and looks as if he's searching for words.
jonathan voiceover: the slayer always knows what she's doing.
scene change: cut to exterior driveway, day. jonathan paces around in front of a one-car garage. the area is fenced in with a garbage cans and other various backyard paraphernalia. jonathan frowns sternly as he walks and talks.
jonathan: sharp. decisive. always with a plan.
scene direction: jonathan louder
jonathan: we're never gonna become the crime lords of sunnydale with her always one step ahead of us.
scene direction: warren os
warren: well, that's why we're throwing these tests at her, seeing which one of us can shake her up the most, maybe find a weakness or two.
scene direction: jonathan walks forward.
scene direction: warren is on the ground, lying on his back on a rolling platform such as mechanics use when working underneath a car. he rolls out backwards and looks up at jonathan.
warren: she's ready.
scene direction: we see that he's just emerged from underneath a large black van.
jonathan: sweet. run me through it.
warren: ah.
scene direction: warren gets up, opens the van's side door.
warren: we got nine high-resolution surveillance cameras hooked in
scene direction: warren points
warren:  super-wide angle, infrared, auto-iris, plus six types of audio matrix monitoring...
scene direction: pan across the interior of the van. it's completely filled with electronics equipment on both sides. also a bean-bag chair or two, and a couple of wheeled computer chairs.
warren: that's filtered through a dual quad dvs system, and a...
jonathan: yeah, yeah, fine, just tell me.
scene direction: jonathan they start walking around toward the front of the van
jonathan: are you sure with all of this stuff that we'll be able to watch buffy without her noticing us?
warren: absolutely. i mean, she'll never even know-
scene direction: they come around to the other side and find andrew spray-painting a huge death star on the side of the van.
warren: w-what the hell is that?
andrew: death star, dude! wicked, huh?
scene direction: jonathan scornfully
jonathan: thermal exhaust port's *above* the main port, numb-nuts.
andrew: for your information, i'm using the empire's revised designs from return of the jedi.
jonathan: that's a flawed design!
warren: guys!
scene direction: warren they shut up
warren: okay, the thing is, since we're messing with the slayer, who could pummel the three of us into a sludgy substance, it might be a good idea for us to
scene direction: warren yelling
warren: not draw attention to ourselves!
scene direction: jonathan nods smugly at andrew.
scene direction: andrew uncertain
andrew: i could paint over it if you want.
warren: yeah, well, do that! because this time tomorrow, the games begin.
scene direction: warren zoom in on his face
warren: and the slayer ... will never even know what hit her.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on the hallways of uc sunnydale. various students walking around.
buffy voiceover: this is gonna be great.
scene change: cut to buffy and willow entering a classroom.
buffy: i thought it might be a little weird being back, i mean, it is weird, but like a good kind of weird.
scene direction: instead of desks the classroom has long tables set up in a rectangle. they walk around the perimeter to find empty seats.
willow: there's the teacher, mike.
scene direction: shot of the teacher dressed casually, writing on the blackboard the words "social construction of...".
willow: you'll like mike.
scene direction: willow sits
buffy: you call your teacher mike? boy, school sure has changed since my day.
scene direction: buffy sits
scene direction: mike turns from the blackboard. the final word he wrote was "reality".
mike: social construction of reality. who can tell me what that is?
scene direction: mike many students raise their hands including willow
mike: rachel.
rachel: a concept involving a couple of opposing theories, one stressing the externality and independence of social reality from individuals.
scene direction: rachel buffy looks confused
mike: and the flip side?
scene direction: mike many hands raised
mike: steve?
steve: that each individual participates fully in the construction of his or her own life.
mike: good, and who can expand on that?
scene direction: mike hands
mike: chuck?
chuck: well, those on the latter side of the theoretical divide stress...
scene direction: buffy leans toward willow and whispers
buffy: will, i'm not following this too well.
willow: oh. the trick is to get in the rhythm, kinda go with the flow.
scene direction: willow raises her hand
buffy: flow-going would be a lot easier if your classmates weren't such big brains.
scene direction: willow hand still raised
willow: buffy, that's ridiculous! they are no smarter than you or me.
scene direction: mike o.s.
mike: willow.
scene direction: willow lowers hand, speaks to mike
willow: because social phenomena don't have unproblematic objective existences. they have to be interpreted and given meanings by those who encounter them.
scene direction: willow buffy stares at willow
scene direction: mike o.s.
mike: nicely put. so, ruby, does that mean there are countless realities?
scene direction: willow notices buffy's look
willow: what?
scene change: cut to buffy and willow walking through the hallways.
willow: you're not dumb. just rusty.
buffy: maybe i should ease back in with some non-taxing classes, like, introduction to pies, or maybe advanced walking.
scene direction: tara hurries up to join them.
tara: hey! how'd it go?
willow: she did fine! sociology, not a big fave.
tara: she didn't like mike?
buffy: no, look, it's fine. i just need to spend a little more time re-acclimating. you know, to get back into the swing of things.
scene direction: a guy bumps buffy as he walks past them. close shot of a hand touching her clothing, moving away to reveal a tiny metal object. cut back to wider shot. buffy almost falls over but willow and tara catch her.
scene direction: willow yells after the guy
willow: hey! you could at least say sorry, rude-o!
tara: everybody's in a hurry.
scene direction: the girls exchange an annoyed look and continue walking.
scene change: cut to the guy coming around a corner. we see that it's warren. he looks up and sees a surveillance camera on the ceiling, turns away from it and speaks into the collar of his sweatshirt.
warren: francis 7, this is logan 5. i'm in position, do you copy?
scene change: cut to interior of the van. a bank of computer screens show various images. jonathan sits in front of them with a microphone ear-piece headset on. andrew stands behind him.
jonathan: yeah, warren, we copy that. and you're up on the monitor.
andrew: hey warren, this is working great.
scene direction: the monitors show warren as he smiles and waves at the camera.
warren: runner is tagged, inhibitor is on. repeat, inhibitor is on. initiate omega pulse sequence.
scene change: cut to exterior of the college campus. the black van sits in a parking spot. various people walking around.
scene direction: a small satellite transmitter emerges from the top of the van and swivels, making whirring noises.
scene change: cut to buffy and tara walking through the halls together.
tara: my art appreciation class doesn't start for another twenty minutes, so we've got some time to kill. um, here.
scene direction: tara takes a large book from her bag and gives it to buffy
tara: you'll like it, it's very mellow.
scene direction: buffy opens the book and looks at a picture of a painting.
scene direction: weird buzzing noise, like static on a tv. buffy frowns, looks up.
tara: ...didn't think she liked my cooking
scene direction: tara we see tara sitting on a bench nearby
tara: until i realized that that was her yummy face.
scene direction: tara smiling
tara: you know how her nose-
buffy: what was that?
tara: what was what?
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: uh ... that, that noise, wh-what was that about, about cooking? whose yummy face?
tara: willow. wow, you ... really got engrossed in that renaissance book.
scene direction: tara stands up
buffy: i guess. i ... must have spaced out.
scene direction: buffy gives the book back to tara and goes over to a drinking fountain.
tara: oh, i-i do that sometimes. once, willow and i were watching "spongebob squarepants"...
scene direction: buffy bends toward the fountain to drink. the buzzing noise again.
scene direction: tara calling
tara: buffy? a-are you coming?
scene direction: we see tara all the way down the hall by a set of double doors.
scene direction: tara calling
tara: we're gonna be late for class.
scene direction: buffy looks extremely confused and a little angry.
buffy: what the f-
scene change: cut to interior of the van. warren opens the door from outside and quickly climbs in, shutting the door behind him.
scene direction: warren excited
warren: is it working? is it doing it?
jonathan: dude, it's doing it.
andrew: and it's wicked cool.
scene direction: cut back to inside. tara walks into a crowded classroom, pauses just inside the door and turns.
scene direction: buffy comes running around the corner.
buffy: tara! tara!
scene direction: the classroom doors close in her face. the halls are now empty as all the students have gone to class. buffy looks around in dismay.
scene direction: the buzzing noise again. students begin pouring out of the classrooms into the hallways. tara walks up behind buffy.
tara: buffy, where have you been? you missed art class.
buffy: missed? uh, tara, something freaky's going on, it's like i'm-
buffy looks over at a wall clock. the hands on the clock move quickly. they start at about 11:50 and stop again at about 12:10.
buffy: look, there! there!
scene direction: buffy pointing
buffy: uh, did you see-
scene direction: she looks around and sees that tara is gone. the halls are deserted again. buffy makes a frustrated face.
buffy: crap!
scene direction: she runs off.
scene change: cut to buffy coming out of the building. a lot of students are walking around in various directions. buffy rushes down the stairs.
buffy: tara!
scene direction: we see tara a little way off, walking away.
buffy: tara, wait!
scene direction: shot of the campus from buffy's pov. we're in a little courtyard with a grassy lawn. in the middle of the lawn is a stone table with a stone bench circling it. all the people move faster and faster until they're just blurs.
scene direction: buffy stands still looking around as the blurs move past her. one of them bumps into her and knocks her down.
scene direction: the blurs continue to move across the lawn as buffy starts crawling toward the stone table. another one hits her and she falls down on her back, groans in pain. she gets to her hands and knees and crawls the rest of the way, crawls under the table. the blurs continue to move by.
scene change: cut to the van. the geeks are watching buffy on their monitors and can apparently also hear what she's saying.
buffy: that noise. there's something on me.
scene direction: cut back to buffy. she begins examining her clothing. she takes off her sweater.
scene direction: cut back to the van. on the monitors, the view swings around to show buffy's face.
warren: oh no.
andrew: uh-oh.
jonathan: she found it.
scene direction: the image of buffy tilts from side to side as she looks at her sweater.
scene direction: cut back to buffy. she finds the tiny metal device attached to her sweater and removes it, holds it in the palm of her hand and stares at it in confusion.
scene direction: cut back to the van.
andrew: oh, this is bad, this is bad.
jonathan: self-destruct! self-destruct!
andrew: i, i don't know, i-
warren: no!
scene direction: warren reaches over and flips up the plastic casing that covers a large red button. he puts his finger over it, pauses. on the screen, buffy reaches out her finger toward the device. warren pushes the button.
scene direction: cut back to buffy. the device disintegrates in her hand. she looks up.
scene direction: all the people resume walking at normal speed.
scene direction: buffy frowns, gathers up her stuff and comes out from under the table. she stands there looking around, a little scared.
scene change: cut to the van. warren plops down in a bean-bag chair on the floor.
warren: okay, score me.
scene direction: andrew and jonathan sit in computer chairs above him in "judge" positions.
jonathan: rrrright.
scene direction: jonathan ponders
jonathan: fifty points for ingenuity, another thirty since it involved actual contact.
andrew: very smooth, by the way.
scene direction: andrew warren smiles
jonathan: on the freak-o-meter i'd say she was at a six.
warren: oh come, it's an eight, easy!
scene direction: jonathan and andrew lean their heads together to confer. then pull back to their original postures.
jonathan: we'll split the diff, call it a seven. which is good for a hundred and forty, giving you a grand total of...
andrew: two hundred and twenty.
scene direction: warren claps triumphantly, points at andrew
warren: beat that!
andrew: oh, i will.
scene direction: cut back to buffy still standing on the grass looking around in extreme confusion.
andrew voiceover: i will.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on a construction site, day. pan across various machinery and men in hard-hats.
buffy voiceover: this is gonna be great.
scene direction: reveal buffy and xander, also wearing hard-hats, walking through the site. they wear toolbelts and buffy carries a lunchbox. her hair is in two pigtails.
buffy: diving into the workforce. being a bread-winner, building things with my hands.
xander: uh, actually, you won't be building so much as lifting and toting.
buffy: toting?
xander: it's just a temp gig, buff. you know, unless it tanks. since you're not union, i had to call in a few favors to get you on a crew.
buffy: well, i appreciate it. muchly. you saved me from having to accept giles' offer to work at the magic box. i mean, retail? yeee.
scene direction: buffy shudders
buffy: i'd rather be dead. again.
scene direction: xander not really listening
xander: uh-huh. so, giles have any thoughts about your little fast-forward freak-out at school?
buffy: no. oh, well, he implied that maybe it was stress-related. like i was imagining it or something. i don't know. maybe. i guess i, i ... could have been blacking out, but ... there was this thing on my sweater, you know?
scene direction: buffy xander nods, not really listening
buffy: and then it just, blew away, or went poof. maybe it was lint.
scene direction: buffy excited
buffy: maybe it was evil lint.
xander: okay, first tip of the day. when i introduce you to tony the foreman? you might wanna leave out stuff about blacking out and evil lint.
scene direction: they walk on.
scene direction: they approach a spot where a couple of guys are standing around looking at blueprints.
xander: hey. tony.
scene direction: xander tony turns
xander: this is buffy. you know, that friend i told you about.
scene direction: buffy sticks out her hand
buffy: nice to meet you, tony.
scene direction: tony just scowls at xander. buffy pulls her hand back, looks around at the other men.
buffy: guys.
scene direction: the other guys just stare.
tony: you gotta be kiddin' me. we're a week behind, i got two men out on the dl, and now you want us to baby-sit some little girl?
buffy: uh, excuse me, but i-
tony: hang on, gidget!
scene direction: tony to xander
tony: this stinks, harris. what am i supposed to do with her?
xander: give her a chance. she's stronger than she looks.
scene direction: tony just sneers and turns back to the blueprints.
xander: that's the spirit!
scene direction: xander aside to buffy
xander: don't mind him, he may seem pig-ignorant, rude, and a little hostile...
scene direction: xander pauses
xander: have fun!
scene direction: xander pats buffy on the shoulder and starts to leave
buffy: whoa, where are you going?
xander: upstairs. i need to supervise the sheet rock hangers. don't sweat it! i'll be back to check on you later.
scene direction: xander leaves.
tony: okay, danny, finish puttin' in those j-boxes, vince, marco, i need you to haul the steel inside.
marco: gee, i don't know, tone. i don't wanna get in trouble with those affirmative action lawyers, you know what i'm sayin'? why don't you put, uh, little britney here on hauling duty?
buffy: it's buffy.
tony: okay, princess, you're on it. try not to break a nail.
scene direction: the guys laugh nastily. buffy makes a face, mimicking tony, and walks toward the pile of large steel girders. one of the other guys, vince, joins her.
vince: don't worry about it. and don't let them hassle you into doing something stupid and hurting yourself. these beams weigh quite a few hundred pounds.
scene direction: buffy picks up a beam easily and puts it on her shoulder.
buffy: which way?
scene direction: all the men pause to stare. vince points his thumb toward the half-finished building.
buffy: thanks!
scene direction: she carries the beam off as vince stares at the remaining pile in surprise.
scene change: cut to inside the site, later. someone is welding. buffy comes in carrying another girder, and addresses another man, danny, who's crouched over doing something.
buffy: so basically i'm just trying to learn everything i can, you know? 'cause i don't want just a job, you know? i want a career, you know, something i can grow into.
scene direction: she goes over to danny who is trying to move a girder. buffy easily helps him lift it into position.
buffy: i mean, i never thought i'd be working in construction ... but when you think about it kinda makes sense-
danny: hey. we get paid by the hour.
scene direction: danny buffy looks surprised
danny: you wanna ruin it for the rest of us? slow down.
scene direction: he walks off leaving buffy standing there uncertainly. in the background we see tony watching.
scene change: cut to a view of the construction site as seen through binoculars. the lens follows a worker along until we see buffy in the background. the lens stops and focuses in on her.
warren: ah! got visual of subject, four o'clock.
scene direction: we see warren and jonathan sitting in the passenger seat of the van, looking out the window. warren holds the binoculars up to his face.
jonathan: that's not four o'clock.
scene direction: warren lowers the binocs
warren: well, it is if you're facing the front of the van.
jonathan: but we're not facing the front of the van, we're facing out that way.
scene direction: jonathan gestures
jonathan: that's twelve, so she's at two o'clock.
scene direction: warren annoyed
warren: look, she's over there, okay?
scene direction: jonathan annoyed
jonathan: okay.
scene direction: warren lifts the binocs to look again. jonathan turns, parts a bead curtain that separates the "cab" of the van from the rear. he peeks through to the back.
scene direction: we see andrew sitting on the floor reading a comic.
jonathan: you're up.
scene direction: andrew tosses the comic down, picks up a set of wooden pipes and begins to play by blowing air across the tops of them.
scene direction: the music continues as we cut to buffy approaching a water cooler on the site. she leans over to take a cup.
scene direction: she hears something and straightens up, looks around in confusion. the music continues and melds into the background music of the scene. buffy shrugs, turns back to the cooler to fill her cup.
scene direction: shot of buffy from someone else's pov, approaching her. a wrench sits on a nearby stand. the person picks it up and carries it toward buffy.
scene direction: she sees the person approaching and stands up too quickly, spilling water on herself.
buffy: ooh! oh.
scene direction: it's tony the foreman.
tony: jumpy? what's the matter? i scare ya?
scene direction: suddenly buffy pushes him aside to reveal a green demon behind him. tony hits the wall as buffy hits the demon. buffy takes off her hard-hat and throws it aside as she faces the demon.
scene direction: two more demons drop down from above to surround buffy. they are all green-skinned and wear long trenchcoats.
scene direction: buffy kicks one demon, punches the other two, kicks, goes to her knees and sweeps the feet out from under one. she gets in a couple more kicks before one of them grabs her around the waist from behind, dragging her backward. she finally gets loose, holds the demon's arm with one of hers while backhanding it with the other.
scene direction: the demon tosses her backward, grabs her and pins her against a wall. she kicks it back and another demon takes its place. buffy punches it a few times, turns and leaps up to grab an overhead bar. swinging from it, she kicks a demon in front and one behind, does a somersaulting dismount and kicks two demons with both feet. they crash into a partially built wall, bringing it down.
scene direction: buffy picks up a shovel from the floor and uses it to hit the other demon a few times. he goes down and she stabs the shovel into him, then drops it.
scene direction: the demon lies on the floor dead. then his whole body turns into a pile of goo which evaporates completely, leaving just an oily stain.
scene direction: the other two demons get up, pushing pieces of wall off them. there are also two men there, scrambling to get away. the demons pursue them.
men: no, don't hurt me! please! help me!
scene direction: men etc.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: hey!
scene direction: the demons turn and see buffy behind them. they attack her. she punches them both, wraps some wire around one demon's neck and strangles it. it falls to the ground and disintegrates as the previous one did.
scene direction: buffy ducks a punch from the other demon, kicks it back against a piece of machinery, picks it up and shoves its head into the machine. she pulls out a cable and the pneumatic machinery begins to compress, crushing the demon's head. the demon also dissolves.
scene change: cut to the van. the geeks are watching through the window. jonathan sits in the driver's seat (background), warren in the passenger seat, and andrew perched on the dashboard. andrew has the binoculars.
andrew: oh, man. she took 'em out.
warren: lemme see.
scene direction: warren grabs the binoculars and looks
andrew: okay, give it back now.
warren: no, i'm still looking.
andrew: no, y-you had your turn, now gimme-
warren: no, i'm still-
andrew: gimme-
scene direction: andrew grabs for the binoculars and warren shoves him away. andrew falls halfway onto jonathan's lap. his elbow hits the steering wheel and activates the horn, which plays the star wars theme song.
scene change: cut to the construction site. buffy hears the honking and peers curiously out of the building. she sees the black van sitting on the street beyond the fence. the star wars music continues.
scene direction: cut back to the van. the geeks yell "duck!" and all dive for the floor. andrew jumps through the bead curtain into the back while the other two just lower their heads.
scene direction: cut back to the site. buffy continues looking toward the van as a couple of construction workers approach. we see another guy is pinned under some wreckage.
scene direction: cut back to the van. jonathan and warren part the bead curtain and glare angrily at andrew in the back.
scene direction: andrew defensive
andrew: hey. all you said was lose the mural.
scene direction: the other two make annoyed faces.
scene direction: cut back to the site. two men are helping the third get up. xander comes running over.
xander: oh my god. buffy, what ... what happened? how ... aw, buffy, i know these guys can be jerks, but was it really necessary-
buffy: i didn't do this!
scene direction: tony comes around the corner holding a cloth to his bleeding forehead.
tony: i'll tell you what she did. i came over to tell your friend i was impressed by the job she was doing, liking the way she handles herself, and all of a sudden she goes berserk and attacks me.
scene direction: buffy outraged
buffy: wh - i saved you from the...
scene direction: she pauses, pulls xander aside.
buffy: the demons! they were these three big apey things!
xander: no. no, not here. not at my job. that's your job.
buffy: i can't help where the forces of darkness attack me, xander.
xander: buffy, would you look at this mess?
scene direction: xander gestures
xander: do you have any idea how much it's gonna cost to repair this? and what am i supposed to say to the clients, should i just show them the demon bodies and say it's all their fault?
scene direction: buffy pouts
buffy: you can't. they melted.
scene direction: buffy sees his reaction
buffy: but ... uh ...
scene direction: buffy whines
buffy: there, there are witnesses!
scene direction: buffy turns to the other members of the crew
buffy: vince! vince! you'll tell him, right, how i jumped in and protected you from those ... things?
vince: hey, i don't know what you're talking about. all i know is you were losin' it or something.
scene direction: vince buffy stares in shock
vince: that time of the month, huh?
buffy: what?! you were huddled in a corner! crying! like a baby!
vince: hey, hey. no way. me, crying?
scene direction: buffy gives xander an angry look and stalks off past vince and tony.
vince: you're trippin', sweetie.
scene direction: vince to tony
vince: what's her problem?
scene direction: xander shakes his head, gives the guys a nervous smile and follows buffy.
scene change: cut to outside the building frame. buffy and xander walk along. buffy has her hard-hat on again.
buffy: i didn't imagine this, xander.
xander: i know. i believe you. in fact, i'm starting to think between this attack and the school thing that somebody's messin' with you.
buffy: really? you think they're connected?
xander: well, there's something going on. i think it's worth checking out, and i don't mean later. you need to see giles and get on it right away. i'd start with id'ing those demons.
buffy: you're firing me, aren't you.
xander: big time. the whole melty thing oughta help narrow it down.
scene direction: buffy takes off her hard-hat and gives it to him. long shot of the two of them from the back.
xander: uh, try sketching them. that always helps, and then maybe, when i get off work i'll help you go through the mug shots.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on exterior shot of the magic shop, day.
buffy voiceover: this is gonna be great.
scene change: cut to inside. buffy and anya walk through the store together.
buffy: you know, i've always been interested in, um, interested in retail.
scene direction: they descend the stairs and anya heads toward the counter. in foreground we see giles carrying a large stack of books toward the round table. buffy approaches him. we see that the table is already piled high with a huge number of books.
buffy: uh ... is this all research, or just some kind of stress test for the table?
scene direction: giles puts books on table, picks up a mug
giles: i just want to be thorough. this ... time anomaly, and then the, the demon attacks could be completely unrelated events, but if they're not ... you might be in some danger.
scene direction: giles drinking from mug
buffy: so, situation normal then.
scene direction: giles sits down and opens a book. anya comes over with a three-ring binder.
scene direction: anya to buffy
anya: let's review.
scene direction: anya opens binder
anya: um, you record returns here. um, these are the slips for special orders, you ship them wherever the customer wants. and, uh, these are the hold slips.
giles: fill out two hold slips for each item.
scene direction: giles gets up and moves away
anya: oh, and uh, be sure to remove the items from the shelf.
scene direction: as anya speaks, we zoom in on a shelf behind the table. there are a couple of items on the shelf, the major one being a human skull with a candle in its top.
scene direction: anya os
anya: um, i can illustrate with an amusing story about a crystal.
scene direction: we see that there's a tiny camera mounted in one of the skull's eyes.
scene change: cut to the interior of the van. a monitor shows the view from the skull-camera of anya and buffy in the store. giles moves around them and out of frame.
scene direction: anya on screen
anya: uh, see, there was this certain customer who wanted to purchase a sapphire. uh, sapphire ... well ... ding-dong. right? and so anyway, i...
scene direction: pan across the monitors to find warren yawning in boredom as he watches. he reaches out to turn down the volume.
warren: this is so dull i might actually have fallen asleep and be dreaming you guys.
scene direction: andrew slides into view, rolling on his wheeled chair.
andrew: why is the slayer here anyway? she's a student, she's a construction worker, and ... now she's some kind of ... selling stuff person?
scene direction: warren shakes head
warren: it's like she's completely without focus.
scene direction: warren pause
warren: should we check the other channels for free cable porn?
scene direction: andrew seems to like the idea.
scene direction: jonathan os
jonathan: guys, i'm ready.
scene direction: we see jonathan sitting on the floor. the other guys look over, then get out of their chairs and sit on the floor as well, forming a triangle. jonathan's holding a piece of paper in one hand and a cigarette lighter in the other.
jonathan: i need you to hold hands.
scene direction: warren holds out his hand to andrew, who recoils.
andrew: with each other?
warren: well, you know what homophobia really means about you, don't you?
scene direction: warren picks up a piece of bone and points it at andrew.
jonathan: stop touching my magic bone!
scene direction: warren puts the bone down as he and andrew burst out giggling.
scene direction: jonathan annoyed
jonathan: shut up.
scene direction: the others stop laughing but still look amused.
jonathan: okay.
scene direction: jonathan begins flicking the lighter as he holds the piece of paper over the floor in between them. warren grabs andrew's hand. jonathan gets the lighter lit and sets the paper on fire.
jonathan: okay, it's in latin, so don't laugh. it's supposed to sound like this.
scene direction: he turns off the lighter and sets it aside, puts the burning paper down, picks up the bone.
scene direction: shot from above. we see that there's a triangle drawn in red on the floor, and a bowl in the middle of the triangle, with the burning paper in the bowl. jonathan waves the bone over it while making gestures with his other hand.
jonathan: opus orbit est, et ea in medio, tempus ad calcem intendit. [approx. translation: "the work is a circle, and she is in the middle, the time stretches out."]
scene direction: clouds of smoke begin to rise from the bowl. jonathan grins at the other guys.
scene direction: the smoke engulfs them and they all begin to cough.
scene change: cut to inside the magic shop. buffy walks along looking bored. behind her, we can see out the window. we see the van parked across the street with smoke coming out of it as its rear door pops open to release the smoke. faintly, we can hear the geeks coughing.
scene direction: we also see a woman walk past the windows toward the magic shop door. the camera follows her. she opens the door, making the bell above it jingle.
scene direction: buffy turns to look as the customer enters. giles comes up behind buffy.
giles: buffy, a word in your ear.
scene direction: the woman closes the door behind her and comes into the store. buffy turns to giles.
giles: while i was running the store, i found it useful to imagine myself back in the library. um,
scene direction: giles removes glasses and begins cleaning them
giles: you know, if you concentrate on service and, and not on making a sale, you're more likely to have a satisfied customer.
scene direction: giles nods, examines his glasses.
buffy: guess i'll have to find my own style.
scene direction: giles not listening
giles: yes, uh, quite, quite, quite.
scene direction: giles puts his glasses back on and moves away. buffy turns away as anya comes up to her. they both look toward the woman customer.
anya: that woman. go sell her something.
scene direction: anya smiles, pats buffy on the back and walks off. buffy looks skeptical, begins walking toward the woman.
scene direction: as she climbs the stairs, a male customer stops her. he's looking at a display of scented candles.
male customer: miss? which candle creates a more, you know, romantic atmosphere?
scene direction: buffy picks up a candle, sniffs it, looks at the sticker on the bottom.
buffy: hmm. "lemon seduction."
scene direction: she puts it down, picks up another and sniffs it, makes a face.
buffy: ew!
scene direction: buffy looks at sticker
buffy: "essence of slug."
scene direction: buffy puts it down, picks up the first candle and hands it to the customer
buffy: here you go.
scene direction: male customer smiling
male customer: thank you.
scene direction: buffy turns away.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: buffy walks over to woman
buffy: may i help you?
scene direction: female customer conspiratorially
female customer: i need something for a prosperity spell. i heard you have it. the mummy hand?
buffy: uh, yeah, actually, i saw one downstairs. it's kinda hairy, though. maybe it was a daddy hand.
scene direction: she smiles, but the customer doesn't get the joke.
buffy: i'll just get it.
scene direction: she turns and walks to the door leading to the basement, opens it.
scene change: cut to basement. buffy walks around holding a paper bag, looking for the mummy hand. she puts the bag down as she examines the jars lining the shelves.
scene direction: buffy reads
buffy: 'petrified hamster' ... uch! eyeballs and honey. dagger of lex...
scene direction: she turns and sees the mummy hand sitting atop a wooden crate.
buffy: hmm. ancient mummy hand.
scene direction: she reaches out to pick it up but stops when the mummy hand springs to life. it leaps at her and grabs her by the throat. buffy grabs it by the throat and wrestles with it for a moment, finally pulls it off her and tosses it back onto the crate. she turns, grabs the dagger of lex from the shelf, stabs it into the back of the mummy hand. the hand continues moving for a moment and then stops. buffy stares at it, panting slightly.
scene change: cut to above. the woman customer stares in dismay as buffy holds up the dagger with the mummy hand still impaled on it.
buffy: and you get the dagger of lex for free with it! see the inlaid mother-of-pearl ... underneath the black oozing goo?
female customer: this hand is dead. the power is gone, i'm not giving you money for this!
buffy: oh, it's just playing dead.
scene direction: buffy swats the mummy hand
buffy: little scamp.
scene direction: she gives the woman a hopeful look.
scene direction: close shot of the bell above the door. it jingles as the door opens.
scene direction: buffy turns around. she no longer holds the dagger and hand. she's back where she was when the customer first entered the store. giles comes up behind her.
giles: buffy, a word in your ear.
scene direction: the woman customer comes in, shuts the door. buffy frowns in confusion, turns to giles.
giles: uh, while i was running the store, i found it was useful to, uh...
buffy: huh? what? huh?
scene direction: giles cleaning glasses
giles: ...imagine myself back in the library, uh, to, uh-
buffy: we did this just now. giles, something is happening.
scene direction: giles not listening
giles: yes, uh, quite right.
scene change: cut to a view of buffy and giles on the monitors inside the van.
warren: aw, you did it! dude, she's looping!
scene direction: the geek trio watch the monitors, grinning.
warren: wha, uh, what'd you do, enchant the hand thing?
jonathan: uh, well, not exactly. i made it so she had to satisfy a customer with a task that resists solving.
scene direction: jonathan stops smiling
jonathan: maybe i shoulda done more.
andrew: like what?
jonathan: i don't know.
scene direction: jonathan looks at monitor
jonathan: like make her kind of itchy?
scene direction: on the monitor, giles walks away as buffy turns toward the customer and anya walks up to buffy.
scene direction: cut back to the store.
anya: go help the lady who just came in.
buffy: wait-
anya: don't worry, don't be nervous. do what i do, just picture yourself naked.
scene direction: buffy makes an "ew" face as anya pushes her toward the customer. again the man by the candles stops her.
male customer: uh, miss-
buffy: here.
scene direction: buffy grabs the lemon candle and gives it to him, continues on her way.
female customer: hi. i'm looking for something really specific. i heard you carry it.
buffy: a mummy hand.
scene direction: the customer looks quite surprised.
buffy: you look like the mummy hand type. sorry, i can't get that for you.
female customer: i called here twenty minutes ago, and someone said you had one.
buffy: y-yeah, um ... but ... there's a thing happening.
female customer: you have one, and, and i was told i could buy it, and i'm sorry, but i'm really gonna have to hold you to that. i'm not leaving until i get a mummy hand.
scene direction: buffy reluctantly
buffy: okay ... i guess ... i'll have to get it for you.
scene direction: cut back to the van. on the screen, buffy turns away from the customer and heads for the basement.
warren: smart. she's figuring out the game. satisfy the customer.
scene direction: warren leans forward
warren: well, she might just have you beat there, stretch.
scene direction: warren shoves jonathan
jonathan: no way. it hasn't even started yet.
andrew: i just hope she solves it faster than data did on the ep of tng where the enterprise kept blowing up.
warren: or mulder, in that x-files where the bank kept exploding.
andrew: scully wants me so bad.
scene direction: the others give andrew skeptical looks.
scene change: cut to the magic shop basement. the mummy hand dances around on the crate tapping its fingers.
scene direction: buffy approaches with a knife in one hand and a set of tongs in the other.
scene direction: the hand pauses, seems to be breathing(?). buffy comes closer. the hand moves across the crate, climbs up onto a skull.
scene direction: buffy prepares to attack it. suddenly it jumps down from the skull, startling her. it perches on the edge of the crate.
scene direction: buffy reaches out with the tongs and grabs.
scene change: cut to above. the woman customer looks into a paper bag with a disgusted expression as buffy watches. then the woman looks up at buffy.
buffy: fingers sold separately.
scene direction: the woman scowls. sound of the door jingling.
scene direction: cut back to the beginning of the scene again. buffy turns around to see the woman entering. buffy sighs in annoyance, starts forward. anya stops her.
anya: where are you going?
scene direction: buffy points
buffy: lady needs a mummy hand.
anya: what? you haven't even talked to her yet.
buffy: i could explain, but you would just forget it.
anya: i'm worried about you. um, retail is a, is a fast-paced and exciting world. i mean, this whole day, has it gone by too quickly for you?
buffy: no. no, i don't think that's exactly the problem.
scene direction: buffy starts toward the customer again as giles comes up.
giles: buffy, a word in your ear. um, if you, uh, think of the store as a, as a library,
scene direction: giles cleaning glasses
giles: it'll help you to, to, uh, concentrate on, on ... service rather than selling.
buffy: yes. and then i'm going to marry bob dole and raise penguins in guam.
scene direction: giles not listening
giles: yes, uh, quite, quite, yes.
scene direction: giles puts his glasses back on and turns away. buffy rolls her eyes, starts toward the customers. she grabs the lemon candle.
male customer: miss, i-
scene direction: buffy shoves the candle into his hand and continues toward the woman.
buffy: mummy hand, right? you got it, lady.
scene direction: the female customer looks bemused as buffy just walks on toward the basement.
scene change: cut to a little later. buffy pulls at the mummy hand which is trying to strangle the woman customer. she gets it loose, only to have it latch onto the woman's throat again. we see that buffy is behind the counter by the cash register, with the customer on the other side of the counter. the woman's eyes bulge as the hand strangles her.
scene change: cut to the bell jingling again.
scene direction: buffy turns around, very annoyed. she stalks toward the front, totally ignores the male customer.
male customer: miss...
scene direction: buffy strides over to the front door, pulls it open with a jingle and steps outside...
scene direction: ...only to emerge in the store again, at the rear. as if she just came in through the back door. giles, anya, and the two customers turn to stare at her. buffy stares back, dismayed.
male customer: miss?
female customer: hi.
scene change: cut to buffy in the basement with her chin resting on her hand, watching idly as the mummy hand plays with the tongs. the bell jingles and she looks up.
scene change: cut to upstairs. buffy goes over to the front door and, with a grimace, pulls the bell down, ripping it from the wall. she gives a satisfied smile.
scene change: cut to close-up of the bell, still attached, jingling as the door opens again.
scene direction: buffy strides toward the front, passing the male customer as he examines the candles. buffy grabs the slug-scented candle.
buffy: ya like slug?
scene direction: buffy tosses it to him without slowing down
buffy: go with slug. she's not gonna sleep with you anyway.
scene change: cut to the van. the geeks are still watching.
scene direction: warren fake angry voice
warren: this mummy hand has ceased to be!
scene direction: warren on screen we see the woman customer shaking the mummy hand at buffy
andrew: it is an ex-mummy hand!
scene direction: warren smacks andrew in the face with a rubber hand.
scene direction: cut back to the store. the door opens. giles comes up to buffy, cleaning his glasses.
giles: buffy, a word in your ear.
scene direction: buffy grabs giles's glasses, throws them to the floor and stomps on them again and again. giles watches in surprise. the door jingles. buffy turns, looking a little desperate.
scene direction: shot of the woman customer looking at the merchandise.
buffy: it's you.
scene direction: buffy runs over to the woman, grabs her by the front of her jacket
buffy: you, you're doing this!
female customer: oh! oh!
scene direction: buffy hustles her toward the door.
scene change: cut to the bell jingling. buffy stands with giles, turns around toward the door.
scene direction: shot of the male customer as the candle hits him in the stomach and he doubles over. the bell jingles.
scene change: cut to buffy standing there with giles and anya behind her. buffy sobs in frustration.
scene change: cut to the bell jingling.
scene change: cut to buffy talking to the woman.
buffy: i know we promised you a mummy hand, it's just ...
scene direction: buffy apologetic
buffy: i-i can't get it for you. um ...
scene direction: buffy gets an idea
buffy: there's something wrong with it. it's defective.
female customer: defective? are you sure? i - there must be something you can do.
buffy: but there's no way to get-
scene direction: buffy suddenly stops as she realizes the solution to the problem. a slow smile comes over her face.
buffy: ...to get *that* hand. but i can special-order one. we can deliver it anywhere you want.
scene direction: female customer smiling happily
female customer: really?
scene change: cut to buffy at the cash register with the customer on the other side of the counter. the cash register rings as buffy closes the sale.
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: thank you for shopping at the magic box.
scene direction: the woman hands buffy the special-order slip and leaves.
scene change: cut to the van.
jonathan: oh ho! yes!
scene direction: the geeks laugh and give each other high-fives.
andrew: so ...
scene direction: andrew doing calculations on a piece of paper
andrew: warren had 220 ... and i had that bonus for getting her fired...
jonathan: but the biggest component has to be how long it took to finish. mine took the longest.
andrew: only from a perspective external to the time-loops. from mr. giles' perspective, it was shortest of all.
scene direction: jonathan disappointed
jonathan: so what do we do?
warren: oh, it's obvious. i mean, it's not over.
scene direction: cut back to the magic shop. buffy is finishing up the paperwork. anya and giles come toward her, smiling.
giles: buffy, your first sale!
scene direction: giles applauds
giles: congratulations.
scene direction: buffy smiles. anya takes the invoice and examines it.
anya: you, you didn't charge for delivery.
giles: oh. well, your first day, you know, these things happen.
scene direction: anya smiling
anya: yeah, i'll just take it out of your pay.
scene direction: buffy gives her a sour look.
giles: yes, um, i'm sure b-buffy would understand that.
scene direction: buffy walks around anya to get out from behind the counter. she slaps something down on the counter and keeps walking.
buffy: absolutely.
scene direction: close-up on the counter. the thing buffy put down was her name tag. it reads, "hello! my name is," then a white space with "buffy" written in it, and then, "ask me about curses!"
scene direction: giles looks at it, looks at anya. anya looks toward the door.
scene direction: long shot of buffy going to the front door and opening it. close-up on the bell jingling.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on close shot of spike looking to his left with a small smile. it's dark.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: this is gonna be great.
scene direction: we see buffy holding up a shot-glass full of liquor. she pours the shot down her throat, swallows it and makes a horrible face.
buffy: blaaah!
scene direction: buffy shakes head
scene direction: we see that buffy and spike are sitting on a coffin in spike's crypt. spike lifts his own shot-glass to his mouth and slams it down.
buffy: life is stupid.
spike: i have a dim memory of that, yeah.
scene direction: spike puts glass down
spike: and i didn't figure you were here cadging my whiskey 'cause life's all full of blood and peaches.
buffy: no. there's this thing ... someone's doing stuff to me. messing up my life. except that it was kind of pre-messed already. you know, with school, and jobs ... pretty bad even without the evil.
spike: so you, uh, just what? gonna let this whoever play you till it figures out what kills you?
scene direction: buffy shrugs, puts down her glass
buffy: giles is working on it.
scene direction: spike laughs
spike: oh, good, 'cause giles wields the mighty force of library books.
buffy: you'd do better?
spike: damn right! i'd hit the demon world.
scene direction: buffy has spike's whiskey flask in her hand. she begins refilling the two glasses as spike brings one leg over the coffin so he's straddling it.
spike: ask questions, throw punches, find out what's in the air. hmm? it's fun too.
scene direction: buffy slurred
buffy: it's not my kind of fun.
scene direction: buffy screwing cap back onto the flask
spike: yeah. it is.
scene direction: she looks at him.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: and your life's gonna get a lot less confusing when you figure that out.
scene direction: buffy slurred
buffy: you have had *so* too much to drink at this point, i am cuttin' you off.
scene direction: they both empty their glasses again. buffy again makes her alcohol face.
buffy: blaaah!
scene direction: buffy shakes head
scene direction: spike watches this with a smile.
spike: you're not a schoolgirl. you're not a shop girl.
scene direction: buffy pours from the flask into her glass again, emptying the flask.
spike: you're a creature of the darkness. like me.
scene direction: spike buffy looks at him
spike: try on my world. see how good it feels.
buffy: are there drinks in your world?
scene direction: spike grins.
scene change: cut to a seedy bar. loud rock music, people drinking. pan across to the door. spike enters, followed by buffy. she grimaces.
buffy: your motorcycle is loud.
bartender: sssspike.
scene direction: we see that the bartender has a forked tongue. spike nods a greeting to him.
scene direction: spike counting out money
spike: the usual, dave, and one for the lady.
scene direction: spike to buffy
spike: we're heading for the back room, pet.
scene direction: the bartender has set out two shot glasses and begins to fill them, but buffy grabs the bottle out of his hand, removes the pour-spout and drinks straight from the bottle. spike sighs, peels off a few more bills and gives the money to the bartender.
spike: it's where the real action is.
scene direction: spike takes the two shot-glasses and heads toward the back. buffy follows, making her alcohol face.
scene change: cut to spike and buffy entering the back room. lots of shelves filled with liquor boxes. sound of voices.
scene direction: spike to buffy
spike: these lowlifes know everything happens in this town.
scene direction: buffy too loudly
buffy: oh, good. these are the lowlifes.
scene direction: we see four demons sitting around a green-felt-covered table, playing cards. they all turn to look.
spike: fine. a little louder.
scene direction: spike walks over to the table.
spike: boys, what's the game?
scene direction: we see one demon with many eyes, one with scaly skin and a bunch of tentacles that look like dreadlocks, one with a green face and horns, and one with very loose skin.
green demon: you know the game, spike. you in?
many-eyed demon: he kills our kind. don't let him in.
scene direction: spike grabs the many-eyed demon by the front of his jacket, pulls him up out of his chair.
buffy: ooh, ask him if he's heard-
spike: later.
scene direction: spike shoves the demon toward the door, sits down in his seat and picks up his cards.
scene direction: buffy disbelieving
buffy: you're gonna play cards?
scene direction: spike looks exasperated, gives the demons a fake smile.
spike: i need a moment with my lady.
scene direction: the demons shrug. spike gets up, goes to buffy and puts his hand on her arm to turn her away. she shoves him off, but moves away with him anyway. the demons continue talking in the background.
buffy: you wanna play, that's fine. okay? i am sticking to the original plan.
scene direction: buffy gestures at demons
buffy: which one do i kill for information?
spike: listen. these guys talk while they play. we'll get more information out of their mouths than out of gaping holes in their corpses.
scene direction: buffy frowns, looks from spike to the demons and back again, finally rolls her eyes in agreement. spike returns to his seat. buffy takes a chair a little bit away from the table, removes her jacket and sits with the bottle of whiskey.
spike: i'm in. everybody okay with that?
scene direction: loose-skinned demon shrugs
loose-skinned demon: ante up.
scene direction: the three demons all turn to reach under their chairs. each demon produces a small kitten. they put the kittens in a basket on the table. the kittens mew.
buffy: you play for kittens?!
spike: so, who's gonna advance me a tiny tabby, get me started?
scene direction: the demons all look away casually.
spike: come on, someone's gotta stake me.
scene direction: buffy grinning
buffy: i'll do it!
scene direction: spike turns to give her a look.
buffy: what, you thought i was just gonna let that lie there?
scene direction: she takes a swig from the bottle.
scene direction: spike looks like he's having second thoughts about bringing buffy here.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: blaaah!
scene change: cut to the black van moving down the street. it's night, the headlights are on.
scene change: cut to inside. jonathan sits in the passenger seat and andrew in the middle while warren drives.
jonathan: where're we going?
warren: to final jeopardy. where buffy's the one in jeopardy.
andrew: we are really super-villains now, like ... like dr. no.
scene direction: andrew jonathan grins
warren: yeah, back when bond was connery, and movies were decent.
scene direction: jonathan scornful
jonathan: who remembers connery? i mean, roger moore was smooth.
warren: you're insane. you're short, and you're insane.
andrew: i like timothy dalton!
scene direction: warren smacks andrew upside the head.
andrew: hey!
warren: don't make me pull over, okay?
scene change: cut to the back room of the bar. kitten mewing noises continue. spike looks at his cards, grins, puts them down on the table. we see that he has a straight, 4-5-6-7-8 of clubs. the other demons groan and throw down their cards.
scene direction: spike smiles, stands up. we see that the table is now covered with kittens. spike opens the lid of a basket and begins trying to put the kittens in the basket.
green demon: you're lucky today, spike.
spike: got my good-luck charm with me.
scene direction: spike gestures with a kitten toward buffy, who's making her alcohol face
scaly demon: you cleaned us out. no-one's that lucky.
loose-skinned demon: yeah. i'm starting to think you cheat.
scene direction: spike sits
spike: me? i cheat? he's got x-ray vision!
scene direction: spike points to scaly demon
scaly demon: i'm not using it.
scene direction: loose-skinned demon stands up angrily
loose-skinned demon: *we* are not the ones who are cheating!
scene direction: spike looks at him.
scene direction: close shot of the demon's arm. an ace of spades is stuck in the folds of skin. he pulls it free as the others watch.
loose-skinned demon: i, i had no idea that was there. i could have leaned on that days ago.
green demon: you better go, spike. things could get ugly.
scaly demon: got ugly the second he walked in.
scene direction: scaly demon disgusted
scaly demon: him and his human.
loose-skinned demon: her skin's so tight, i don't even know how you can look at her.
scene direction: spike stands up angrily and confronts the demon. the green demon gets up too.
green demon: leave your winnings and get out.
scene direction: green demon spike looks at him in surprise
green demon: we'll forget this whole thing.
spike: ah, so it's a setup, isn't it? squeeze a few quid outta the vamp. well, i'll tell you what you didn't count on.
scene direction: spike indicates buffy
spike: me and the bird.
scene direction: buffy o.s.
buffy: blaaah.
spike: you wanna fight? you face the two of us.
buffy: what? i'm not getting into a bar fight!
scene direction: buffy very drunk
buffy: i'll beat 'em up for information, great, but not to defend your right to gamble for kittens! which, by the way, is stupid currency.
green demon: they're delicious!
scene direction: green demon other demons nod
scene direction: spike wheedling
spike: come on, slayer, a big fight's just what you need.
buffy: forget it. i'm not playing by anyone else's rules any more.
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: i'm done.
scene direction: she staggers drunkenly over to the table, opens the basket and tips it over, setting the kittens free. all the demons yell in protest.
demon: hey, i won those two!
buffy: be free, kittens!
demon: they're getting away!
scene direction: buffy turns and leaves as the demons frantically try to re-capture the kittens. the kittens run around under the table, meowing.
scene direction: spike hurries off after buffy.
scene change: cut to the main bar room. buffy walks quickly through, putting her jacket on. spike grabs her shoulder, turns her around.
spike: what's wrong, luv?
buffy: what's wrong?! you were gonna help me! you, you were gonna beat heads and, and, and fix my life! but you're completely lame!
scene direction: she gestures wildly with her arm. her jacket falls down her arm and dangles from one hand. spike simply listens to her tirade, looking surprised.
buffy: tonight sucks! and, and look at me! look at, look at stupid buffy!
scene direction: buffy pulls jacket back up her arm
buffy: too dumb for college, and, and, and freak buffy, too strong for construction work.
scene direction: buffy finishes putting on jacket
buffy: and, and my job at the magic shop? i was bored to tears even *before* the hour that wouldn't end! and the only person i can even stand to be around is a ... neutered vampire who cheats at kitten poker.
scene direction: spike embarrassed
spike: oh, you saw the cheating, did you.
buffy: also? i think you're drunk.
scene direction: she whirls around and storms out of the bar. spike stands there, makes an expression of extreme frustration.
scene change: cut to the interior of the van, rear. andrew emerges from the front into the rear, followed by warren. jonathan comes last.
scene direction: warren to andrew
warren: connery is bond. he had style.
jonathan: yeah, but roger moore was funny.
warren: moonraker? the gondola turns into a hovercraft? it's retarded. besides, the guy had, like, no edge.
andrew: dalton had edge. in licence to kill he was a rogue agent. that's edgy.
scene direction: andrew warren and jonathan give him looks of disbelief
andrew: and he was amazing in the living daylights.
jonathan: yeah, which was written for roger moore, not timothy dalton!
scene direction: warren annoyed
warren: okay, this is stupid! we're wasting time. end of discussion.
scene direction: the other two nod and turn to their consoles, begin typing. beat.
scene direction: warren very angry
warren: i mean, there's a shot of like *pigeons*, doing double-takes when the gondola blasted by! moonraker ... is inexcusable.
scene direction: the others just look at him.
scene change: cut to spike coming out of the bar, walking quickly, waving his hands in annoyance. he's looking at the ground, so he nearly bumps into buffy who's standing on the street, arms crossed, staring at something down the street. spike sighs and rolls his eyes.
buffy: that van.
scene direction: spike looks where she's looking. shot of the black van parked by the sidewalk.
spike: you wanna steal a van, i'm with you, luv, but we have got the motorcycle.
scene direction: spike gestures behind them
scene direction: buffy shakes head
buffy: i've seen it before. at the construction site.
scene direction: she takes a couple of steps forward.
scene change: cut to inside the van. warren is in foreground with his back to andrew in background.
warren: connery is the only actor of the bunch.
andrew: timothy dalton should get an oscar and
scene direction: andrew yells
andrew: beat sean connery over the head with it!
scene direction: warren grimly
warren: okay, that's it.
scene direction: warren spins around, grabs andrew, gets him in a headlock. they struggle.
jonathan: hey! stop it! guys!
scene direction: jonathan tries to break them up, looks up at the monitors, gasps.
jonathan: look!
scene direction: they all look.
scene direction: the monitors show buffy walking toward the van.
andrew: oh, she's coming over here! what do we do?
warren: jonathan, grab your magic bone.
scene direction: warren and andrew burst into giggles again. jonathan looks at them in annoyance.
scene change: cut to outside. buffy approaches the van, frowning. spike stays where he is several yards back.
scene direction: suddenly a large demon comes around the van and growls at buffy. he has red skin, curved horns and wings, and wears only a loincloth.
demon: rrrah! you have discovered me!
scene direction: demon puts hands on hips
demon: but do not try to defeat me, for i have been testing you and i know your weaknesses. ha ha ha!
scene direction: the demon suddenly looks over in dismay as the van starts up and begins to drive off.
scene direction: buffy goes over to the demon, tries to punch it, but being drunk she misses the first time. she kicks out and gets the demon square in the groin.
demon: ooh! oh!
scene direction: the demon doubles over in pain. buffy falls backward onto her butt.
scene direction: spike runs over and helps buffy up.
buffy: i'm okay! i'm fine! get off me!
scene direction: buffy spike makes a "okay, okay" gesture
demon: i am well struck!
scene direction: demon voice breaking
demon: i call on the misty portal to my demon dimension, where i will lay my head and gently die.
scene direction: the demon throws something on the ground which causes a shower of sparks and a cloud of smoke. then he turns and runs away.
scene direction: buffy and spike cough and wave the smoke away.
buffy: he blew up. did you see that?
scene direction: spike looks around in confusion
spike: yeah, i saw. he's gone.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: gotta love it, you know.
scene direction: buffy spike looks at her with a smile
buffy: it makes you feel all powerful.
scene direction: buffy uncertainly
buffy: strong.
scene direction: beat. she looks a little ill. spike continues looking at her.
buffy: kinda sick.
scene change: cut to the van parked on a dark side street. warren's at the wheel. andrew in the passenger seat. the demon comes up on the driver's side, panting.
demon: she hurt me all over.
warren: someone'll see you! get in the back.
demon: i won't fit.
andrew: well, do the ... thing.
demon: oh, right. let the spell be ended!
scene direction: the demon shrinks and turns back into jonathan, holding the loincloth around his waist (as it is now much too big for him). he groans in pain, hobbles over to the back of the van. the other two go through the bead curtain.
scene direction: jonathan opens the back door and climbs into the van.
jonathan: ahh! ow.
scene direction: warren wraps a blanket around jonathan.
scene direction: jonathan plops into a chair still groaning
jonathan: ohh, next time i do that spell, one of you guys has to look like the demon.
scene direction: andrew awed
andrew: the slayer touched you.
scene direction: jonathan sourly
jonathan: yeah, it was sexy the way she touched me real hard with her fists. i only looked big. i actually had the proportional strength of ... uh ... me.
warren: guys, think about this. we took on the slayer. i mean, we've got all kinds of stuff in the computer now ... speed, strength, reaction time ... we're getting what we need to really become a threat to her. we tested her, faced her ... and we survived.
jonathan: unless i have internal injuries that will eventually kill me.
andrew: oh, of course, but barring that, warren's right. we did good!
scene direction: warren nods
warren: the trio ... versus the slayer. it's not over.
scene direction: they all nod and smile.
andrew: plus, look what warren and me discovered by accident before we drove away!
scene direction: andrew jumps up and gets into one of the chairs, fiddling with the equipment. the other two come to look over his shoulder.
jonathan: what?
scene direction: they all stare at the screens.
scene direction: andrew, warren, jonathan unison
andrew, warren, jonathan: free cable porn!
scene change: cut to interior summers house, night. giles stands in the hallway outside the bathroom holding a glass of water. the bathroom door opens and buffy comes out, walking slowly. giles gives her the glass.
giles: feel any better?
buffy: i think at one point, i actually turned completely inside out.
scene direction: buffy walks into her room
buffy: but yeah, better.
scene direction: buffy drinks
giles: i'm sorry i didn't, uh, find this demon with my research.
scene direction: buffy sits on floor next to the bed
buffy: aw, it's okay. i-it wasn't much of a fight.
scene direction: she pulls a fringed blanket off the bed, bunches it up and holds it against her middle.
buffy: i got lucky.
scene direction: she puts her elbow on the bed and rests her forehead on her hand.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: i'm really screwing up, giles.
giles: what? come on.
scene direction: giles sits on the bed
giles: you were being tested ... sequentially, by some ... unknown demon. i don't call that screwing up.
buffy: no, it completely is. i let the demon set the rules.
giles: go easy on yourself, will you? i mean, you don't have to figure the whole thing out at once, you know, job and everything. you're pushing yourself too hard.
buffy: the nice people at the phone company? seem to think it's not hard enough.
giles: well, maybe there's something i can do about that.
scene direction: giles takes something from his pocket
giles: this is, um ... i...
scene direction: it's a folded piece of paper. giles turns it over and over in his hands, then holds it out to buffy.
giles: it's for you.
scene direction: buffy takes it
buffy: a check?
scene direction: she unfolds the check, looks at the amount, looks stunned.
buffy: this is, is too much, i can't take it.
giles: well, tear it up then.
scene direction: giles reaches for it
scene direction: buffy snatches it away from him
buffy: no! i was just being polite.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: i'm taking the money.
scene direction: giles smiles, leans on the bed. buffy looks at the check again.
buffy: this is, this is great. this is more than great.
scene direction: giles puts his hand on her shoulder. she looks up at him.
buffy: i don't ... really know how to say this ...
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: but it's a little like having mom back.
giles: in this scenario, i am your mother?
buffy: wanna be my shiftless absentee father?
scene direction: giles grins a little, then pulls a serious face.
giles: is there some sort of, um, rakish uncle?
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: i'm just saying ...
scene direction: buffy seriously
buffy: thank you. so much.
scene direction: buffy tries to get up, groans in pain. giles gets up, helps her stand.
buffy: i'm gonna ... show this to dawn. she loves it when things get easy.
scene direction: she walks to the door, looking at the check. pauses in the doorway, turns back to giles.
buffy: i just ... wanna tell you ... that, um ... this ... makes me feel safe. knowing you're always gonna be here.
scene direction: giles gives her a smile and a nod. but as soon as buffy turns to leave the room, his smile turns to a worried frown and he sighs.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon. the end