scene direction: open on a table covered with magical stuff - tarot cards, candles, little bowls and boxes of herbs, etc.
scene direction: a pair of hands comes into the shot and sweeps everything into a cardboard box. pull back to reveal buffy. she begins removing pillar candles from the table and putting them in the box too.
scene direction: reveal dawn standing by the bookshelf looking at books. her left arm is in a sling. she puts a book in a box, looks over at buffy.
dawn: candles?! we can't have candles?
buffy: dawn, it's magic clearance. everything must go.
scene direction: buffy looks over at willow, who is sitting cross-legged on the bed. willow nods.
dawn: b-but they're just candles!
scene direction: buffy sighs, stands up
buffy: well, yeah, you know, to you and me they're just candles, but to ... witches they're ... like bongs.
scene direction: willow nods sadly. dawn sighs.
buffy: so, no candles, no charms ...
scene direction: buffy walking toward the door to the bathroom
buffy: no- willow: bird.
scene direction: buffy stops walking
buffy: no bird?
willow: that peacock on the table.
scene direction: willow looks at the side table near buffy
willow: it has two crystals in it.
scene direction: buffy picks up the small statue of a bird. she opens it and finds two crystals inside.
willow: tara, she...
scene direction: willow buffy looking at her
willow: she left them.
scene direction: willow dawn looking at them
buffy: i'll make sure she gets them.
scene direction: willow nods.
scene change: cut to downstairs. buffy walks into the living room carrying a cardboard box. she begins walking around, picking up things and putting them in the box. dawn follows.
scene direction: buffy over her shoulder
buffy: dawn, do me a favor, can you grab the fertility god statue on the desk over there?
dawn: kokopelli?! no! i love him! and he was mom's.
scene direction: buffy puts hands on hips and just looks at dawn.
scene direction: dawn upset
dawn: why do we have to get rid of so many things i like?
buffy: dawn, i explained this to you. willow has a problem. the next few weeks are gonna be ... crazy hard on her as it is.
scene direction: buffy turns away as she continues talking. dawn rolls her eyes and turns to pick up the statue.
scene direction: buffy on the sofa, moving cushions around
buffy: any reminder of, of what it is that she's trying to stay away from, you know, could cause her to ... give in to temptation.
scene direction: buffy digs among the sofa cushions and finds something. it's a cigarette lighter. she flips it open and stares at it.
scene direction: flash to buffy and spike in the abandoned building, kissing and slamming each other up against the walls.
scene direction: flash back to the present. buffy still stares at the lighter.
buffy: and that would be bad.
scene direction: she turns and tosses the lighter into the cardboard box.
scene change: cut to a closeup of the stolen diamond seen through a magnifying glass. a hand takes it out of its black-velvet-lined case and holds it up.
scene direction: cut out to reveal warren, wearing safety goggles and sitting at a workbench. a device of some sort, vaguely machine-gun-shaped, is on the bench in front of him. he puts the diamond into a space on top of the device, in the middle of a star shape formed by six metal spikes. he places a glass cover over the diamond.
scene direction: warren triumphant
warren: okay, that's it. it's finally done.
scene direction: jonathan and andrew come up behind him to look.
warren: i mean, it still needs a trial run, but it's- jonathan: kind of clunky-looking.
warren: what?!
andrew: i pictured something cooler. more ilm, less ed wood.
scene direction: warren gets up angrily
warren: you wanna see cool? i'll show you cool.
scene direction: warren picks up the device. jonathan and andrew look alarmed, back away.
scene direction: warren points the device at them for a moment, then turns away, fiddling with the controls. the device makes a whirring noise as the star-shaped bit on top spins around. a bolt of reddish light shoots out and hits one of the leather chairs on the platform. the chair disappears.
scene direction: the geeks stare in awe. andrew pushes past the others and goes over to where the chair was. jonathan follows slowly.
jonathan: mama!
scene direction: warren watches with a smirk.
scene direction: andrew and jonathan stand on either side of where the chair was. andrew makes gestures like he's feeling around in the air.
jonathan: did it ... is it...
andrew: yeah.
scene direction: jonathan grins excitedly, turns and very carefully sits down on the invisible chair. he spins around a few times, giggles crazily. andrew stares in awe.
scene direction: jonathan laughing, to warren
jonathan: i'd call that a successful test.
warren: well, that's just half the test.
scene direction: warren begins flipping switches again. the diamond begins to whirl.
jonathan: hey! hey!
scene direction: andrew leaps for cover and jonathan pulls his arms and legs up to shield himself as warren zaps him again. the chair reappears.
scene direction: jonathan looks nervously at his arms, making sure he's still visible, then gets up angrily.
jonathan: you penis!
warren: oh, cheer up, frodo. because thanks to my brains, and our mystical gem, we got ourselves an invisibility ray.
scene direction: warren shoulders the weapon
warren: and i'd say that makes us pretty much unstoppable.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on buffy in the kitchen, yelling toward upstairs.
buffy: dawn, come on, you gotta eat breakfast! xander's gonna be here any second.
scene direction: no response. buffy sighs, turns back into the kitchen.
buffy: she's gonna be late for school again.
scene direction: willow is at the stove cooking, wearing pajamas. buffy looks over at her.
scene direction: close shot of willow's hands putting bits of ham into a cooking omelet.
buffy: how are you doing?
willow: i'm okay. not 'ready to head back to classes, face the world' okay, but ... the shakiness is only semi now. i thought i'd spend the day fishing the net, for more poop on the, uh, stolen diamond.
scene direction: dawn enters, her arm still in a sling.
buffy: i called you before.
scene direction: dawn sullen
dawn: didn't hear you.
scene direction: dawn pours herself a glass of orange juice.
willow: hey dawnie, uh, i'm making you a nice omelet.
dawn: not hungry.
scene direction: dawn drinks juice
buffy: dawn, you need to eat something.
dawn: thanks for your concern.
scene direction: dawn slams her glass down and leaves.
willow: okay, i deserve the wrath of dawn, but ... why is she taking it out on you?
buffy: because i let it happen.
willow: buffy, i was the one who- buffy: who was drowning. my best friend. and i was too wrapped up in my own dumb life to even notice.
scene direction: suddenly the door from the back porch bursts open. willow and buffy look over in surprise as a blanket-covered shape enters, slams the door shut and throws off the blanket, revealing spike. he straightens up, smoothes down his hair, looks at them.
spike: morning.
buffy: what are you doing? and, here?
scene direction: buffy willow returns to cooking
spike: just, uh, took a stroll. found myself in your neck of the woods.
buffy: couldn't find a less flammable time of day to take a stroll?
spike: yeah, well, the fact is my lighter's gone missing. thought it might have, uh, dropped outta my pocket the last time i was here.
buffy: haven't seen it.
scene direction: buffy turns to the sink. willow takes the omelet pan and puts it on the counter next to the sink.
willow: i'm, uh, gonna head back to my room, get dressed.
buffy: oh, i...
scene direction: buffy starts to follow willow out, but stops. she leans one hand against the island, watches willow go. then she turns to spike with a resigned expression.
buffy: lame.
spike: what?
buffy: you. making up excuses.
scene direction: buffy goes back to the sink
spike: oh, don't flatter yourself, luv.
scene direction: spike walking toward her
spike: bloody fond of that lighter.
scene direction: buffy turns away from the sink, glares at him.
buffy: stop trying to see me. and stop calling me that.
scene direction: spike walks over to her
spike: so, um ... what should i call you then? pet?
scene direction: buffy just looks at him as he leans right up in her face.
scene direction: spike grinning
spike: sweetheart? my, uh ...
scene direction: spike fondling a piece of her hair
spike: little goldilocks?
scene direction: he toys with her hair for a moment with one hand, then the other.
spike: you know i love this hair. the way it bounces around when you- buffy suddenly lifts her hand out of the sink, holding a spatula on trajectory toward spike's face, but he grabs her wrist and stops it.
spike: ah-ah-ah! this flapjack's not ready to be flipped.
scene direction: his other hand is on her shoulder and now drops down out of shot.
buffy: what the hell is that supposed to- buffy breaks off with a small sigh of pleasure, closing her eyes.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: stop that.
scene direction: spike looks downward, but we still can't see what his hand is doing.
xander: good godfrey cambridge, spike!
scene direction: spike and buffy look over to see xander standing in the doorway. buffy quickly shoves spike's hands off her, drops the spatula into the sink.
xander: still trying to mack on buffy? wake up already. never gonna happen!
scene direction: xander spike and buffy glaring at him
xander: only a complete loser would ever hook up with you.
scene direction: xander buffy looking insulted
xander: well, unless she's a simpleton like harmony, or a, or a nut sack like drusilla- buffy: hey! you really need to get dawn off to school. let's go, go fetch her, okay?
scene direction: buffy walks over to xander, takes his arm and guides him toward the hallway.
scene direction: buffy not turning back
buffy: you can let yourself out, right spike?
scene direction: spike watches them go with a smirk.
scene change: cut to buffy and xander emerging into the foyer.
scene direction: buffy calling
buffy: dawn! you better get going, xander's here!
dawn: here.
scene direction: dawn appears from upstairs.
buffy: okay, you have everything you need?
scene direction: dawn interrupting
dawn: yep.
buffy: and after school, you- dawn: yeah yeah. let's go, xander.
scene direction: buffy walking toward the door
scene direction: buffy intercepting her
buffy: you will come straight home.
scene direction: dawn sarcastic
dawn: sure. maybe we can find some time for you to
scene direction: dawn buffy opens door
dawn: get me into another car accident.
scene direction: as the door opens we find a middle-aged woman standing on the front step holding some papers. buffy gives dawn a sour look, then notices the woman.
scene direction: ms. kroger removing her glasses, smiling at dawn
ms. kroger: oh, good morning. you must be dawn.
scene direction: ms. kroger dawn nods
buffy: can i help you?
ms. kroger: i'm doris kroger, from social services.
scene direction: ms. kroger displaying her id badge
ms. kroger: we had an appointment?
buffy: oh, for wednesday.
ms. kroger: this is wednesday.
scene direction: buffy looks at xander, who nods.
buffy: right! well ... dawn, you better...
scene direction: dawn rolls her eyes in utter adolescent disdain and leaves, pushing past ms. kroger.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: and, and xander, you'll drive safely?
xander: yes ma'am.
scene direction: xander follows dawn out.
scene direction: ms. kroger enters the foyer.
scene direction: ms. kroger smiles at buffy
ms. kroger: little bit on the tardy side, isn't she?
scene direction: buffy closing door
buffy: yeah, well, uh, it's been one of those mornings, you know.
scene direction: buffy notices that ms. kroger has already gone into the living room
buffy: hey, come on in.
scene direction: ms. kroger stands in the doorway to the living room, looking around. buffy walks up beside her.
buffy: sorry about the mess, you know, doing a little house-cleaning.
scene direction: in foreground we see spike sitting slouched in an armchair.
spike: so, we gonna chat this out, or what?
scene direction: buffy nervous
buffy: uh ... now's really not a-a good time. um, i have company.
scene direction: buffy indicates ms. kroger
scene direction: spike making himself comfortable
spike: no worries. i'll wait.
ms. kroger: um, miss summers, if you and your boyfriend would like to- buffy: he is not- spike looks over with a scowl.
scene direction: buffy clears throat
buffy: not my, my boyfriend, he's, um, just ... a...
scene direction: spike looks over at her, waiting to hear what she'll say.
buffy: spike ... this nice woman is, uh,
scene direction: buffy meaningfully
buffy: from social services?
spike: oh, right!
scene direction: spike gets up
spike: uh ... hey! buffy's a great mom. she takes good care of her little sis.
scene direction: spike both buffy and ms. kroger smiling
spike: like, um, when dawn was hanging out too much in my crypt, buffy put a right stop to it.
scene direction: ms. kroger frowning
ms. kroger: i'm sorry, did you say- buffy: crib!
scene direction: ms. kroger fake laugh
ms. kroger: he said crib. you know kids today and their buggin' street slang.
scene direction: ms. kroger isn't convinced. buffy walks over to spike, takes his arm and turns him around.
buffy: uh, spike, didn't you have to go now, you know, because of that thing?
spike: uh, thing, yeah. uh, my blanket.
scene direction: buffy scowls, picks up the blanket and throws it at him. he catches it, scowls back at her. faceoff.
scene direction: shot of ms. kroger observing all this with raised eyebrows.
scene direction: spike turns, still scowling, and exits into the kitchen.
scene direction: buffy watches him go, looking conflicted. then puts on a bright smile and turns back to the social worker.
ms. kroger: he sleeps here?
buffy: what? no! no. oh, uh, the, the, the blanket. that's, um, uh, it's a security thing, you know. he ... has issues. nope, just me and dawn living here.
scene direction: willow os, calling from upstairs
willow: buffy, i'm not feeling hot, so uh, i'm gonna take a quick nap, okay?
scene direction: buffy calling
buffy: okay, will!
scene direction: buffy looks nervously at ms. kroger, who gives her a questioning look.
buffy: that's willow. she, uh, she kind of lives here too, actually.
ms. kroger: oh, so you live with another woman.
buffy: oh! oh, it's not a, a gay thing, you know, i mean, well...
scene direction: ms kroger has noticed the box full of magical stuff to be thrown out. she picks up a plastic baggie containing some herbs.
buffy: ...she's gay, but, but we don't ... gay. not that there's anything -
scene direction: buffy notices ms. kroger looking at the herb
buffy: oh! wrong with...
scene direction: buffy rushes over
buffy: you know, i know what that looks like, but i, i swear, it's not ... what it looks like.
scene direction: buffy ms. kroger looking shocked
buffy: it's *magic* weed.
scene direction: buffy realizes that came out wrong, grabs the plastic bag from ms. kroger and tosses it back in the box.
buffy: it's not mine.
ms. kroger: i think i've seen enough.
scene direction: she turns to leave. buffy hurries after her.
buffy: no, a-actually, i really don't think that you have. it's just ... i-it's been kind of, kind of a, a bad time.
ms. kroger: it's been a bad time now for a while, hasn't it, ms. summers? your sister's grades have fallen sharply in the last year, due in large part to her frequent absences and lateness.
buffy: but there-there are good reasons.
ms. kroger: oh, i'm sure there are. but my interest is in dawn's welfare. and the stability of her home life, something i'm just not convinced that an unemployed young woman like yourself can provide.
buffy: i can. i, i do!
ms. kroger: well, we'll just have to see about that then, won't we?
scene direction: she goes to the door, stops and turns back.
ms. kroger: oh, and i'm, uh, going to recommend immediate probation in my report.
buffy: what does that mean?
ms. kroger: it means that i'll be monitoring you very closely, ms. summers. and if i don't see that things are improving, well, i'll be forced to recommend that you be stripped of your sister's guardianship.
buffy: you can't do that.
scene direction: ms. kroger opens the door
ms. kroger: i do what is in dawn's best interest ... as should you. have a nice day.
scene direction: she goes out the door. buffy stares after her for a moment, then sighs and closes the door, stands leaning with one hand on the door frame.
spike: didn't go well, huh?
scene direction: we see spike standing in the foyer. buffy turns to face him, leans against the door jamb, sighs.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: why won't you go?
scene direction: spike surprised
spike: i just thought you'd want- buffy:
scene direction: spike harshly
spike: get out of here!
scene direction: spike looks surprised, then angry. he lunges forward and pins buffy against the wall, one hand on the wall beside her head. their faces are inches apart.
scene direction: spike does something with his other hand out of shot and buffy closes her eyes, breathes heavily.
scene direction: close shot of spike's hand inside buffy's front jeans pocket, moving around. then he pulls out his lighter and holds it up in front of her face.
spike: just getting what i came for, luv.
scene direction: he moves in closer as if to kiss her, but then turns away and strides off down the hall toward the kitchen.
scene direction: spike not looking back
spike: so long, goldilocks.
scene direction: buffy sighs, stands there breathing a little heavily and looking upset. after a moment she moves away from the wall.
scene change: cut to buffy's room. she walks in, slams the door and leans against it, looking upset, whimpering a little. she puts her face in her hands, then walks forward, shaking her arms and moving her shoulders around. she paces a bit, sits down in front of her vanity table, puts her head in her hands again.
scene direction: then she lifts her head, looks at herself in the mirror. she turns to open a drawer, searches through it, closes it, opens another drawer, takes out a pair of scissors. she grabs a fistful of her hair and chops it off with the scissors. she drops the hair on the floor and starts cutting off another piece, looking angrily at her reflection.
scene direction: shot of the locks of hair lying on the carpeted floor.
scene change: cut to close shot of a woman with a wild "tousled" hairdo.
cleo: well, i-i think i can work with this.
scene direction: we see that she's standing behind buffy who sits in a barber's chair, both looking at buffy in the mirror. buffy's shorn hair is about shoulder-length and all uneven.
cleo: what exactly would you like me to do?
buffy: just make me ... different.
scene change: cut to the street, day. warren emerges from the rear of the geeks' black van, closes the door and walks around the side of the van, carrying something covered by a cloth. andrew and jonathan appear on either side of him, walking. we see that they're in an alley.
andrew: i'm scared, what if we get caught?
jonathan: no way, we'll be invisible. plus their security's gotten lax.
scene direction: warren chuckles
warren: you should know. you've cased this joint enough.
scene direction: they emerge from the alley onto a main street, turn the corner and approach a large storefront. the sign in the window reads "spa, women only. bikini wax wednesdays" and a cartoon picture of a woman.
warren: okay, this is it.
scene direction: the geeks stop walking. warren faces the others.
warren: remember...
scene direction: warren removes the black cloth, revealing the invisibility ray gun.
warren: ...we're professionals.
scene direction: the others nod uncertainly. andrew looks away.
scene direction: long shot of buffy emerging from the hairdresser's across the street. her hair is now neatly styled at shoulder-length. she begins to walk across the sidewalk.
scene direction: andrew nudging jonathan nervously
andrew: uh, slayer!
warren: what? wh-where?
andrew: there. headed this way.
scene direction: warren turns to look, fearfully.
scene direction: buffy walks between some parked cars (one minivan with bumper stickers reading "god bless america" and "united we stand") and begins to cross the street.
scene direction: cut back to warren staring at her. he lifts his hand and suddenly realizes the invisibility ray isn't in it. he turns and realizes that the other two geeks aren't standing behind him any more.
scene direction: jonathan os
jonathan: give it!
scene change: cut to the alley just around the corner. andrew and jonathan are fighting over the ray gun. warren runs around the corner and finds them.
andrew: no, i need to be invisible!
jonathan: i need it more, buffy can't see me!
warren: hey, watch it, don't you- warren runs over and tries to get the ray away from them. the bit on top is spinning and the whirring noise intensifies.
scene direction: suddenly the red light bursts out of the invisibility ray. it hits buffy as she walks past the mouth of the alley. it also hits a tree, a fire hydrant, some traffic cones, and a dumpster, all of which immediately disappear.
scene direction: the geeks stare in dismay. zoom in on andrew.
andrew: oopsie.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on a close shot of xander in the magic shop, staring at something.
xander: what happened to buffy? she's gone.
anya: she's right here.
scene direction: we see that xander and anya are studying a diagram of seating arrangements.
scene direction: anya points
anya: table four. i put her with your family.
xander: great. except, we don't hate buffy.
scene direction: shot of the magic shop door opening but there's no one there.
scene direction: xander os
xander: let's put her back at table one.
scene direction: xander the door closes again and the camera pulls back into the shop
scene direction: anya os
anya: well, where do i put d'hoffryn?
scene direction: xander os
xander: we're not inviting d'hoffryn.
anya: we have to, he's my ex-boss! you're inviting your work buddies.
scene direction: the camera continues pulling back and then swings around to face anya and xander again. we hear buffy's voice but we don't see her.
invisible buffy: she's got a point.
xander: hey, buffy...
scene direction: xander turns around to look at buffy, but doesn't see her. confused, he stands up and looks around.
xander: where ... where are you?
invisible buffy: at table four, apparently.
scene direction: anya frowning, looking around
anya: well, that remains to be seen. like you.
invisible buffy: don't strain yourself looking, xander. i'm invisible girl.
scene direction: anya comes out from behind the counter as xander continues looking around, holding his hands up at breast height.
invisible buffy: uh, xander?
scene direction: xander jumps and pulls his hands back quickly.
scene direction: xander nervous laugh
xander: sorry!
scene direction: xander to anya
xander: her clothes are ... invisible ... too.
scene direction: xander to the empty air where he thinks buffy is
xander: buffy, how did this hap ... wait a sec, have you been feeling ... ignored lately?
invisible buffy: yeah, ignored. i wish. no, this isn't a marcie deal. i don't know what happened. i left main street after getting my hair cut, and- anya: you cut your hair?
invisible buffy: oh, yeah!
anya: really? how short?
invisible buffy: um, about up to here ... well, if you could see my hand, it's kind of above my shoulders.
anya: ahh, that sounds so adorable! i was thinking about getting my hair cut before the wed- xander: can we get back to freaking out about no-show buffy?
scene direction: anya anya looks chastised
anya: this is serious.
invisible buffy: i know. it kind of fits the day i've had.
scene direction: the camera moves over to a table where there's a basket full of baseball-sized balls. one of them lifts into the air and begins moving around as if buffy is tossing it from hand to hand.
invisible buffy: willow's still a wreck, dawn's mad at both of us, and the social services lady put me through a wringer. says she's gonna watch me. i'd like to see her try now.
scene direction: invisible buffy holds up a second ball. the balls have symbols painted on them that make them look a little like eyes. she holds them next to each other, moves them as if the eyes are looking side to side.
invisible buffy: you know, there may be an upside to no-see-me.
scene direction: invisible buffy the balls float over toward anya
xander: buff, did you say anyone, or ... anything suspicious before you ... cleared out?
scene direction: buffy continues playing with the 'eyes' next to anya's head, making anya nervous. she turns them so they look cross-eyed.
invisible buffy: nope, didn't see nothin'.
scene direction: invisible buffy laughs
invisible buffy: see what i did there, with the eyeballs?
scene direction: anya nervously, to xander
anya: why would anyone make her invisible anyway? i mean, invisible slayer's gotta be way more effective than the standard variety.
scene direction: through this the 'eyeballs' turn to 'look' at anya and then at xander. now they move away. we hear buffy's footsteps.
xander: yeah, i'm less with the why and more with the how. we get the how, then we got how to make her unseen sight seen again, right?
scene direction: a human skull floats up beside xander's shoulder. its mouth moves up and down.
invisible buffy: 'saright!
scene direction: xander annoyed
xander: buffy, could you focus please?
scene direction: invisible buffy making the skull 'look around'
invisible buffy: i am! just ... this is kind of fun.
anya: well, it would help if we had a little bit more to go on. or ... anything to go on.
xander: well, i could go check the spot where buffy disappeared. snoop for clues.
scene direction: invisible buffy putting skull back on a shelf
invisible buffy: yeah, right. uh, hey, you know what? i'm just gonna ... go for a walk.
scene direction: invisible buffy footsteps heading toward the door
xander: a walk?
invisible buffy: yeah. um, clear my head.
scene direction: invisible buffy xander following her toward the door
invisible buffy: you guys keep working on those whats and hows.
scene direction: invisible buffy laughs
invisible buffy: clear my head.
scene direction: the door opens.
xander: buffy!
scene direction: the door closes.
scene direction: anya grimaces and shrugs, sits down in front of the seating plan again.
anya: well, seems pretty obvious it's some kind of spell that's done this to her.
xander: spell from who? you said it yourself, it makes no sense for one of her enemies to make her invisible.
anya: maybe it's a mistake.
xander: a magical mistake.
scene direction: xander small laugh
xander: who'd be messing with that kind of pow- suddenly he stops, looking thoughtful. anya turns to look at him.
scene change: cut to the summers house, dining room. pan across the table covered with open books. willow's computer is set up at the end of the table, and she sits in front of it, drinking from a bottle of water.
scene direction: she puts the water down, picks up a book and looks under it, looks under another pile of books. looks across and sees the book she wants -- at the other end of the table.
scene direction: willow holds out her hand. the book moves a little. she stops, pulls her hand back.
scene direction: sound of the door opening.
xander: willow.
scene direction: willow os
willow: xander!
scene direction: xander enters from the front door and walks into the dining room. willow looks guilty.
xander: how's it going?
willow: um ... good.
scene direction: willow xander sits
willow: i, i, uh, found ... out some stuff about the diamond stolen from the museum.
scene direction: willow xander not really listening
willow: it's called the illuminata, and there's rumors of it having quasi-mystical quantum properties.
xander: willow, we need to talk.
scene direction: willow nervous
willow: we ... are talking. well, i'm talking and you're looking at me funny.
xander: is there something you wanna tell me?
scene direction: they look at each other for a moment. willow looks upset.
willow: it was nothing, i ... i-i didn't slip.
xander: will, nobody's mad. relapse is a part of recovery, we understand that. we just have to figure a way to fix it.
scene direction: willow confused
willow: fix what?
xander: fix buffy.
willow: buffy's broken?
xander: will, you know what i'm talki -
scene direction: xander sees her expression
xander: you don't know.
scene direction: willow shakes her head, still confused.
xander: rhymes with ... 'blinvisible'?
willow: what?
xander: buffy was in town, leaving the haircutting place, when she suddenly just- willow: buffy got her hair cut?
scene direction: xander sarcastic
xander: yeah! adorable, apparently. i personally couldn't tell, since she's all 'blinvisible.' willow:
scene direction: xander upset
xander: and you think i had something to do with this?
xander: uh, no ... not ...
scene direction: xander sighs
xander: well, come on, will. some of the spells you've done have caused some weird stuff to happen to each of us at one time or another. and let's not forget the recent forgetting.
willow: oh. i see, so now when anything nasty happens, i get conveniently blamed for it?
xander: no one's blaming!
scene direction: willow stands up
willow: so ... i guess it wouldn't matter if i just jump off the wagon completely ... since you already think i'm making pit stops.
xander: well, look, if you said you didn't do it -
scene direction: xander willow grabs her coat and goes past him
xander: willow, where you going?
willow: for a walk.
scene direction: she opens the front door and exits. xander watches her go in dismay.
scene change: cut to the geek trio's underground lair. warren is working on the invisibility ray, using a small blow-torch. jonathan and andrew watch.
warren: couple of circuits are burned out, and the wiring's all fried.
andrew: but we had so many plans. naked women, and all ... well, all-all the naked women.
scene direction: andrew to jonathan
andrew: this is all your fault, if you hadn't grabbed it from me- jonathan: hey, we got a lot bigger problems here, bonehead. the slayer's invisible now?
andrew: he's right.
scene direction: andrew to warren
andrew: she could be anywhere.
scene direction: andrew warren stops working, looks at him
andrew: even here, right now.
scene direction: all three look around very nervously.
scene direction: andrew quietly
andrew: watching. listening to every word we say.
scene direction: andrew very dramatically
andrew: for all we know, she could be one of us!
scene direction: warren and jonathan look each other up and down for a long moment, anxiously. suddenly they all burst into relieved laughter.
andrew: oh, wait, no, guys, that isn't true.
scene direction: warren returning to his work
warren: i wouldn't sweat the slayer too much.
jonathan: says you. in my book an invisible slayer means a whole world of trouble.
scene change: cut to a park, day. a young woman sits on a bench reading a book. she wears a purple baseball cap. the camera moves toward her. we can see that the edges of the cap are decorated with metal studs.
scene direction: suddenly the cap lifts off the woman's head and floats around in front of her face. she looks very surprised.
scene direction: invisible buffy spooky voice
invisible buffy: i am the ghost of fashion victims past.
scene direction: invisible buffy normal voice
invisible buffy: studded caps? not a good idea.
scene direction: the woman looks scared, gets up and runs away.
invisible buffy: hey! i'm doing you a favor!
scene direction: the camera (buffy's pov) swings down to discover a garbage can. the cap drops into it. then the camera moves around to see two people jogging past.
invisible buffy: naah ... too easy.
scene direction: the camera moves forward toward the street. we see a cop standing next to a parked suv, writing a ticket. the camera moves closer.
invisible buffy: hmm...
scene direction: the camera moves back to find the cop's golf-cart-like vehicle parked behind the suv.
scene direction: cut back to the cop. he looks up in surprise at the sound of an engine starting.
invisible buffy: so long, copper!
scene direction: the golf cart drives past him and on down the street, apparently empty. the cop runs after it.
cop: hey ... hey! that's mine! stop!
scene change: cut to the golf cart pulling to a stop beside the curb in another part of town. pan over to reveal a large building with the words "department of social services" on the side.
invisible buffy: hello, mrs. kroger.
scene change: cut to inside. a typical office setting. phones ringing, people walking around. pan down the hall to reveal ms. kroger sitting at her desk in a cubicle area. another woman is working nearby.
scene direction: ms. kroger is looking at some paperwork on her desk. she reaches over to pick up a coffee mug, takes a sip, puts the mug down next to her right hand. takes a pen from a container and makes a note on the papers, reaches for the coffee mug again. but the mug is gone.
scene direction: ms. kroger confused
ms. kroger: what - where's my...
scene direction: she turns to find the mug sitting on the desk by her left hand. she gives a nervous laugh. the coworker turns to look at her.
scene direction: ms. kroger joking
ms. kroger: losing my mind.
scene direction: she picks up the mug, takes a sip, puts it down on her right again. turns to the left to pick up some more papers. turns back and the mug is gone again.
scene direction: she gives a frustrated sigh.
scene direction: ms. kroger annoyed
ms. kroger: okay, who's the- she turns and finds the mug sitting on top of her computer monitor. as she reaches for it, it floats up into the air and dances around a little.
scene direction: invisible buffy softly
invisible buffy: kill, kill, kill!
ms. kroger: what?
scene direction: the coworker looks over in confusion.
coworker: i didn't say anything.
ms. kroger: not you! the mug, it's- the mug is gone again. she stops, looks around. the mug is back in its original spot on her right.
ms. kroger: but i ... i heard something.
scene direction: she pokes the mug nervously.
invisible buffy: kill, doris. kill everybody.
scene direction: ms. kroger looks shocked, pushes her chair back and stands up.
invisible buffy: you know you want to.
scene direction: ms. kroger yelling at the mug
ms. kroger: shut up, shut up, just shut up!
scene direction: she pauses, realizes she's shouting, looks around. shots of several coworkers staring at her.
scene direction: ms. kroger looks confused, turns and walks away.
scene direction: close shot on the file folders on her desk. they begin to move.
invisible buffy: okay ... no ... no...
scene direction: invisible buffy moves the files aside until she finds the one labeled 'summers, dawn'.
invisible buffy: yahtzee!
scene direction: the file opens. the camera moves over to the computer keyboard. the keys begin to move as invisible buffy types.
scene change: cut to ms. kroger coming out of the women's bathroom, holding a paper towel to the back of her neck. she starts to walk back toward her desk.
boss: uh, doris!
scene direction: a man intercepts her.
boss: i've, uh, got a few, so if you wanna discuss that case file now...
ms. kroger: what? oh! oh yes, the, um, summers file, it's, uh, it's right over here.
scene direction: she goes to her desk, picks up a file and gives it to the boss. he begins looking through it.
ms. kroger: uh, it's a fifteen-year-old girl, living under her older sister's guardianship. the house is a complete- boss: what is this?
scene direction: ms. kroger reading
ms. kroger: 'all work and no play make doris a dull girl'?
ms. kroger: what?
boss: 'all work and no play make doris' - the pages are filled with it.
scene direction: shot of the case file. all the papers have been replaced with pages filled with the one sentence 'all work and no play make doris a dull girl" over and over.
scene direction: ms. kroger grabs the file back and looks at it in confusion, shaking her head.
ms. kroger: i ... i...
scene direction: she looks over at the printer. shot of the printer still spitting out more pages of the same thing.
ms. kroger: i, i, i didn't do this, i ...
scene direction: the boss looks dubiously at her. she leans closer to him.
scene direction: ms. kroger softly
ms. kroger: it was the voice.
boss: excuse me?
ms. kroger: there was a voice, before. it made my coffee dance. it told me to-
scene direction: ms. kroger breaks off
boss: to ... what?
scene direction: ms. kroger nervously
ms. kroger: nothing.
boss: doris ... take the rest of the day off. see your doctor.
ms. kroger: but what about my cases?
boss: we'll, uh ... put someone else on them. and have them redo the summers interview.
scene direction: sound of whistling. the camera recedes away from them down the hall.
ms. kroger: i'm not crazy. i am not crazy!
boss: well, no one said that you were.
scene direction: the camera continues moving away as the whistling continues -- to the tune of buffy's song "alive" from episode "once more with feeling." the door at the end of the hall opens, then closes.
scene change: cut to xander walking down the street. he passes the spa, enters the mouth of the alley, and finds willow. she has a can of red spray paint and is spraying the dumpster, making it visible again.
xander: hey will.
scene direction: xander she turns
xander: whatcha doin'?
scene direction: willow defensive
willow: look, xander, i - i figured out this was where buffy disappeared from what you told me, so don't start jumping to any conclusions.
scene direction: xander holds up his hands
xander: no jumping, look, feet firmly planted.
scene direction: xander smiles
scene direction: willow embarrassed
willow: i'm not feeling like myself right now, sorry.
xander: me too. sorry.
scene direction: xander she nods
xander: so! what have we found out so far?
willow: well, take a look at that!
scene direction: willow points
scene direction: we see a tire-mark on the ground.
willow: something sped outta here pretty dann quick to, to make that kind of tread mark.
xander: well, this could have been made any time.
willow: yeah, but this ... wasn't.
scene direction: willow takes out a small vial from her pocket and holds it up. xander takes it.
xander: what is it?
scene direction: willow walking away
willow: paint that i scraped off the fire hydrant.
scene direction: she stops at a different part of sidewalk. xander follows her, studying the vial.
xander: what fire hydrant?
scene direction: xander clanking noise
xander: ow!
scene direction: xander hops around on one foot, his other leg having been injured by walking into the invisible fire hydrant.
willow: that one.
scene direction: willow lowers her voice and makes gestures from the alleyway to where they are now.
willow: whatever hit this fire hydrant hit it after it was made invisible. and betcha by golly wow, that something was the same something that shot out of that alley.
scene direction: xander pondering
xander: black paint? buffy's phantom van.
scene direction: xander willow nods
xander: we gotta let buffy - whoa!
scene direction: xander takes a step backward and bumps into something.
xander: there's something there.
scene direction: xander pointing
scene direction: willow sprays her can of spray paint where he's pointing. a traffic cone slowly takes shape.
willow: i-it's a pylon, one of those orange traffic cones.
scene direction: willow continues spraying
willow: you should take it to the magic box. it might help you and anya figure out what kind of spell was used.
xander: what about you?
scene direction: willow stands up
willow: well, i got paint scrapings...
scene direction: willow gives xander the paint can and takes the vial from him
willow: ...and a tire mark. i'm gonna find this van that's been stalking buffy.
scene direction: willow xander nods
willow: by the way, where *is* buffy?
scene direction: xander shrugs in confusion.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. spike sits slouched in his chair, watching tv.
scene direction: woman on tv screaming
woman on tv: oh my god, the blood! look at all the blood!
scene direction: spike looks down at his stomach, puts his hand on it, gets up. he walks over to a small refrigerator, opens it, takes out a jar of blood. takes off the lid and lifts the jar to his mouth.
scene direction: noise from the door. spike pauses, looks over.
scene direction: the door to the crypt is open, swinging on its hinges. no one is visible there.
scene direction: spike looks at it for a moment, puts his jar down and walks slowly toward the door, looking around.
spike: whatever beastie you are, i know you're here. and i hurt beasties.
scene direction: invisible buffy's pov moving past spike from behind, looking down toward his butt and then onward.
scene direction: spike jumps as if something had grabbed his butt.
spike: hey, watch it.
scene direction: the noise of the tv suddenly stops as the tv switches off. spike sighs in irritation.
spike: a ghost, is it?
scene direction: spike looking around
spike: go and haunt the living, like a good spook.
scene direction: the camera moves slowly around him as he looks around, confused.
scene direction: suddenly something grabs his shoulder. he tries to grab it and is spun around by his arm, slammed up against a wall. he gasps, tries to move forward but is shoved against the wall again. his shirt rips open. he looks down at his bare chest.
scene direction: close on spike's face as he frowns in confusion, then gives a little gasp of pleasure, continues frowning.
scene direction: spike tentatively
spike: buffy?
invisible buffy: i told you ... stop trying to see me.
scene direction: she pulls spike away from the wall suddenly.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. anya and xander sit looking at books. the no-longer-invisible traffic cone sits on the table in front of them.
anya: oh, i got it!
xander: really?
anya: yeah, we'll put d'hoffryn at your parents' table, and move your uncle rory to table five near the bar.
xander: ahn honey, we're looking for invisibility spells here.
anya: well, obviously i haven't found anything yet. at least nothing that would explain why things near buffy become invisible.
scene direction: she reaches out to grab the traffic cone. it crumbles partly under her fingers. anya makes a disgusted face.
anya: ew! xander!
scene direction: she holds up her hand with traffic-cone residue on it.
xander: what happened?
anya: an unpleasant tactile experience, like putting my hand in pudding.
scene direction: xander puts out his hand and crumbles another part of the cone.
xander: ew!
anya: like pudding, am i right? rice, or tapioca, lumpy like that.
xander: we have to find buffy, she's gotta know.
scene direction: anya brushing off her hand
anya: i don't think buffy's gonna be too broken up over a pylon.
xander: anya, whatever's happening to the pylon will probably happen to her. if we don't find buffy, i-i mean ... if we don't figure out how this was done...
anya: she's pudding?
scene direction: they stare at each other.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the geeks' lair. warren is still working on the invisibility ray.
jonathan: what do you mean she's gonna fade away?
warren: the slayer got slammed with a big-ass dose of radiation when the gun overloaded. her cells are mutating at an accelerated rate. eventually her molecular makeup will start losing its integrity and then ... pfft.
scene direction: warren makes a "pfft" gesture
andrew: but, wouldn't that kill her?
warren: well, lemme think.
scene direction: warren sarcastic
warren: yeah!
jonathan: wait a minute! we're not killing anybody. especially not buffy!
scene direction: warren sighs
warren: you guys are so immature!
scene direction: warren angrily
warren: we're villains! when are you gonna get that through your thick skulls?
jonathan: we're not killers, we're crime lords!
andrew: yeah! like, like lex luthor.
scene direction: andrew gesturing with a comic book
andrew: he's always trying to take over metropolis, but he doesn't kill superman!
warren: because it's superman's book, you moron!
andrew: but lex doesn't kill him, does he?!
scene direction: warren rolls his eyes in exasperation. jonathan looks determined.
jonathan: listen, warren ...
scene direction: jonathan points forcefully at the gun
jonathan: you get that ray working and the first thing we're gonna do is find buffy and re-visible her before it's too late!
scene direction: warren stands up and towers over jonathan, both staring each other down.
jonathan: you got me?!
warren: fine.
scene direction: warren glances at andrew, sits back down with a small smirk.
warren: whatever you guys say.
scene direction: warren picks up his tools and goes back to work. andrew and jonathan nod at each other.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. it's dark. xander pushes the door open and enters.
xander: spike?
scene direction: pan around the room. it's in disarray, various pieces of furniture lying overturned on the floor, etc. xander looks around.
scene change: cut to the underground room. it's better lit with candles and a lamp. xander enters. sounds of heavy breathing, moaning.
scene direction: pan across to the bed (xander's pov). we see spike on the bed half-covered with a sheet, moving around on top of what looks like empty air.
xander: spike?
scene direction: spike turns his head in alarm to look at xander.
xander: what are you doing?
spike: what am i ... what does it look like i'm doing, you nit? i'm exercising, aren't i?
scene direction: spike turns back to the bed and does a couple of what might look like push-ups if you didn't know better. we hear a small yelp from invisible buffy.
xander: exercising.
scene direction: xander comes closer
xander: naked. in bed.
scene direction: spike stops moving, stands up on the bed and wraps the sheet around his waist.
spike: a man shouldn't use immortality as an excuse to let himself go. gotta keep fit for the killing.
scene direction: spike sits on the edge of the bed
scene direction: xander skeptical
xander: yuh-huh. looks like you had a little trouble upstairs.
scene direction: xander gestures with his head
xander: mini-disaster area.
spike: so what, you just come here to criticize my housekeeping?
xander: no, uh, no. i'm looking for buf- spike:
scene direction: xander quickly
xander: haven't seen her.
xander: well, uh, you wouldn't. the fact is, she's come down with a slight case of invisibility.
scene direction: spike fake surprise
spike: yeah? how did, uh...
scene direction: soft murmuring and kissing noises.
xander: we don't know yet.
scene direction: noises continue. spike's ear wiggles. he jumps.
xander: anyway, she's not at the house, and i really, really need to find her.
scene direction: spike fidgeting
spike: uh, tell you what, i'll ... take a peek around first chance i get...
scene direction: spike makes swatting noises next to his head
spike: and if we bump into each other, i'll clue her that you're on the lookout.
scene direction: spike trying not to laugh
scene direction: xander uncertain
xander: after your ...
scene direction: xander gestures
xander: exercises.
scene direction: spike more swatting
spike: yeah, right.
scene direction: xander looks confused, but he turns to go. then turns back.
xander: you know, kidding aside, spike ... you really should get a girlfriend.
scene direction: he leaves.
scene direction: spike sighs, looks over his shoulder.
spike: that was bloody stupid.
invisible buffy: what's the matter? ashamed to be seen with me?
scene direction: spike gets up, tossing the sheet aside. it falls on top of buffy, showing us the outline of her legs and hips.
invisible buffy: come on. he had no idea i was here. this is perfect.
scene direction: spike goes to a side table, takes out a glass, bangs it down on the table.
spike: perfect for you.
scene direction: spike begins filling the glass from a bottle
invisible buffy: well, picture me confused.
scene direction: invisible buffy spike shaking his head
invisible buffy: i thought this was what you wanted.
scene direction: spike annoyed sigh
spike: what i want...
scene direction: he stares to the side for a moment, then looks over at the bed again.
spike: this vanishing act's right liberating for you, innit? go anywhere you want. do anything you want.
scene direction: spike walks along the bed, holding the glass
spike: or anyone.
invisible buffy: what are you talking ab- spike: the only reason you're here, is that you're not here.
scene direction: invisible buffy drinking
invisible buffy: right. of course, as usual there's something wrong with buffy. she came back all wrong.
scene direction: invisible buffy moving around on the bed
invisible buffy: you know, i didn't ask for this to happen to me.
spike: not too put off by it though, are you?
scene direction: spike drinking
invisible buffy: no! maybe because for the first time since ... i'm free.
scene direction: she tosses the sheet aside. spike looks around, trying to figure out where she's going.
invisible buffy: free of rules and reports ... free of this life.
spike: free of life? got another name for that. dead.
invisible buffy: why do you always have to ...
scene direction: invisible buffy pouty
invisible buffy: i thought we were having fun.
scene direction: invisible buffy comes up to spike and he grabs her by the shoulders, holds her away from him.
spike: yeah, now! but sooner or later your chums are gonna work out a way to bring you back to living color.
scene direction: spike lets her go
spike: you need to go. get dressed if you can find your clothes, and push off. 'cause if i can't have all of you, i'd rather- spike breaks off, looks down toward his waist.
spike: okay, that's cheating.
scene change: cut to the coffee shop. willow sits at a computer terminal drinking from a water bottle. she puts the bottle down and begins typing.
scene direction: shot of the computer screen, showing a web site labeled "department of motor vehicles." a dialog box pops up saying "warning, encrypted information!" with a status bar and a blinking "searching." it fills up slowly.
scene direction: willow fidgets, waiting. shot of the status bar moving along. shot of willow tapping her fingers on the desk.
scene direction: she looks around, lifts one hand to touch the screen. close shot of her eyes. close shot of the screen. the search is almost finished.
scene direction: willow pulls her hand back. the dialog box goes away, replaced with a screen labeled "database, for departmental use only." a list of names and addresses fills the screen.
scene direction: willow looks relieved, picks up a notebook and pen, begins to copy information from the screen.
scene change: cut to close shot of an empty soda can lying on the street. it suddenly goes skittering down the street as if kicked.
invisible buffy: i don't believe this.
scene direction: wider shot of the street (residential area) with the can moving down it. sound of buffy's footsteps. the camera follows her (and the can) along the street.
invisible buffy: he threw *me* out? he threw *me*. did i, like, fall into some ... backward dimension here? is this bizarro world?
scene direction: invisible buffy kicks the can again
invisible buffy: and after he's always going on and on about being the only one that understands me. 'we're alike, you and me. birds of a bloody feather.' uh! he's so ...
scene direction: invisible buffy annoyed sigh
scene direction: three people go by, talking. they pass the soda can. suddenly two of them jerk apart as if something had shoved them.
invisible buffy: hey, i'm walking here!
scene direction: the people stare in confusion, then continue walking. close shot of the soda can.
invisible buffy: insensitive!
scene direction: invisible buffy kicks the can
invisible buffy: that's what he is.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the summers house. sound of buffy's footsteps continues. it's dark (nighttime) and the house is lit up.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. the back door opens, closes.
invisible buffy: willow? willow!
scene direction: invisible buffy walks further into the kitchen
invisible buffy: dawn? hey, dawn, come here. you wanna see something neat?
scene direction: no reply. invisible buffy sighs. the camera pans over to the refrigerator. it opens, revealing various food items including a pizza box.
scene direction: the back door opens again and dawn comes in, moving slowly and quietly. she looks around, sees that the kitchen appears empty. she closes the door very carefully, begins tiptoeing toward the hall.
invisible buffy: there you are!
scene direction: dawn jumps, looks over at the open fridge, looks all around.
dawn: buffy? w-where are you?
invisible buffy: i'm invisible. check this out.
scene direction: the pizza box floats out of the fridge and swoops around in the air.
invisible buffy: wooo, wooo! unidentified flying pizza, comin' in for a landing.
scene direction: dawn stares in shock as the pizza comes to sit on the island and the box opens.
dawn: w-what are you talking- invisible buffy: okay, not the most clever ad lib, but come on! points for spontaneity.
scene direction: dawn upset
dawn: stop it! just ... stop.
scene direction: dawn moving closer to the island
invisible buffy: sorry dawn. i'm, i'm sorry. i-i didn't mean to freak you out.
dawn: well, what did you think would happen? you're freaking invisible, buffy.
invisible buffy: i know. xander and anya are working on it. muldering out what happened.
scene direction: invisible buffy moving around toward the stove
dawn: well, what about you? shouldn't you be working on it?
invisible buffy: of course i- dawn: do you even care about, about who did this to you, or, or if you're gonna be stuck this way? you're making jokes and flying pizzas.
invisible buffy: i don't think that's- dawn:
scene direction: invisible buffy upset
invisible buffy: i can't talk to you like this. i can't see you! how can i talk to you if i can't see you?
scene direction: dawn brushes past invisible buffy and runs down the hall to the stairs.
invisible buffy: dawn! dawn!
scene direction: invisible buffy's pov turns from dawn to the kitchen counter and notices that the answering machine is blinking. zoom in on it. it flashes the number 01. invisible buffy pushes the button and the machine begins to rewind.
scene direction: xander on machine
xander: buffy, it's xander. where are you? listen ... we got a new problem here.
scene direction: anya on machine
anya: tell her!
scene direction: xander on machine
xander: i'm trying to. anya and i think whatever made you invisible is slowly killing you.
scene direction: anya on machine
anya: tell her about the pudding!
scene direction: xander on machine
xander: anya! buff, if we don't ... if this isn't reversed, you're gonna ... well, dissolve, or ... fade ... into nothing.
scene direction: the machine beeps and turns off. pan over to the empty air where invisible buffy is standing.
invisible buffy: wow.
scene change: cut to a dark residential street. willow walks along, pauses, looks at a house and then at a piece of paper in her hand.
scene direction: we see the geek trio's van in a driveway, partially covered by a tarp.
scene direction: willow looks around, walks toward the van. she goes up to it, looks around again, walks between the van and the house.
scene change: cut to the geeks' lair. willow opens the bulkhead door and peeks down the stairs. she goes slowly down the stairs and into the basement lair. she walks around, looking around.
scene direction: she spots a bulletin board with a large piece of paper tacked up. it's a blueprint or schematic of the invisibility ray, conveniently labeled with the words "invisibility ray!" at the top. willow walks over to it, studies the diagram.
scene direction: she smiles, looks at the table next to her, which has more blueprints on it. turns and walks across to the workbench, where the invisibility ray is still sitting. willow takes a swivel-lamp and moves it over to shed more light on the invisibility ray. she lifts her hand as if to touch it.
scene direction: warren os
warren: now!
scene direction: willow turns in surprise. reveal a roll of silver duct-tape floating in the air a few feet away.
scene direction: suddenly willow's arms rise up as if they had been grabbed by invisible hands. she struggles.
willow: hey! let go of me!
scene direction: a piece of duct tape unrolls itself from the roll and rips free. it floats toward willow.
invisible warren: congratulations. you're our first hostage.
scene direction: the duct tape moves toward willow's mouth as she continues struggling.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the summers house, foyer. the front door opens itself.
invisible buffy: dawn, i'm going out to find xander. if he calls me- the phone begins to ring. the door closes. invisible buffy moves into the living room, picks up the phone.
invisible buffy: xander?
scene direction: jonathan on phone
jonathan: don't talk. just listen, slayer. you don't have a lot of time.
invisible buffy: who is this? you sound familiar.
scene direction: jonathan disguising his voice
jonathan: i'm ... nobody. no one you know. we've got your friend willow, and if you don't want anything nasty to happen to her, you better meet us. alone.
invisible buffy: where?
scene change: cut to a video-game arcade. various kids playing various games, lots of noise. pan over to reveal a guy taking tickets by a turnstile. the turnstile turns on its own, and he looks confused.
scene direction: the camera follows the invisible person into the arcade. a few kids get shoved aside and go "hey!" we move further into the arcade and discover willow standing by a pinball machine, looking nervous.
invisible warren: just stay still, and you won't get hurt.
invisible buffy: you okay, will?
willow: buffy?
invisible buffy: where are the bad guys?
invisible warren: all around you, slayer, so don't try anything.
willow: he's bluffing, buffy, there, there's just three of them, i think.
invisible warren: more than enough to cause some serious carnage, right guys? ... guys? guys!
scene direction: shot of a video game with the joysticks moving on their own.
invisible jonathan: kick! use the kick!
invisible andrew: i tried that, he keeps blocking it with his drunken monkey fist!
invisible buffy: ooh, scary video carnage.
invisible warren: hey! slayer's here.
invisible andrew: sorry, didn't see her.
scene direction: the camera follows invisible andrew and jonathan as they abandon their game to rejoin the group.
invisible warren: why don't we continue this in a less crowded area, like, over there.
scene direction: willow looks confused.
all: where?
invisible warren: over ... follow me.
scene direction: we see the invisibility ray floating in the air where invisible warren is. he grabs willow's arm with his other invisible hand and pulls her away. she grimaces.
willow: ow!
scene direction: they move over to a quieter corner next to an air-hockey game. willow starts as someone grabs her other arm.
invisible buffy: i'm gonna go out on a limb and guess you guys are the ones who did this to me?
invisible jonathan: it was an accident!
invisible buffy: who's that?
scene direction: invisible jonathan disguised voice
invisible jonathan: nobody you know.
willow: they're the ones from your mystery van.
invisible buffy: oh. you. so what annoying thing are you gonna do to me now?
invisible warren: save your life, make you visible.
invisible buffy: right. i'm supposed to believe that?
willow: they told me everything, buffy. something's happening to you that, you're- invisible buffy: fading away. i know.
invisible warren: i can fix that.
scene direction: the invisibility ray lifts up and begins its preparatory whirring.
invisible warren: pick up that air hockey mallet on the table.
invisible buffy: what for?
invisible warren: it'll give me a target to aim at.
scene direction: invisible warren willow looking at the invisibility ray
scene direction: the air-hockey mallet floats up into the air. the whirring continues.
invisible warren: okay, now hold still, and all your troubles will soon be gone.
willow: you're on the wrong setting!
invisible warren: what?
willow: the gun, it's not set for reversing the particle ionization. it'll accelerate her molecular dissolution, i saw the plans!
invisible warren: mind your own business.
invisible jonathan: what's she talking about?
invisible buffy: that's what i'd like to know.
willow: buffy, he's trying to kill you!
scene direction: the invisibility ray gun hits willow in the face. she falls down.
invisible buffy: willow!
scene direction: the air-hockey mallet flies through the air and hits invisible warren.
invisible warren: ow!
scene direction: the invisibility ray falls to the floor.
invisible buffy: okay, play time's over.
invisible warren: you haven't won yet, slayer.
invisible buffy: no, that part comes after i beat the snot out of you.
scene direction: throughout the whole exchange, the camera moves around as if following the various characters but really all we see is empty air.
invisible warren: you'll have to find me first! there's three of us, against just one of you.
invisible jonathan: hey, you lied to us!
invisible andrew: fight her yourself!
scene direction: invisible warren angrily
invisible warren: think she cares about that? i go down, we all go down!
invisible buffy: and i promise, you're all going down.
invisible warren: we may not have your powers, slayer, but you'll find that we are not so easy to-
scene direction: invisible warren another air-hockey mallet hits him
invisible warren: ow! get her!
scene direction: fighting noises begin -- punches, grunts, etc. the camera swings around crazily as if following the action. kids in the arcade look over in confusion at the noises.
scene direction: shot of willow still lying on the floor, sitting up with a pained expression.
invisible jonathan: wait a minute, wait a minute! who's biting my leg?
invisible andrew: sorry! where is she?
invisible buffy: here.
scene direction: fight noises continue. a pinball machine shatters as if an invisible person had been thrown onto it. kids scream and begin to run for the exit.
scene direction: willow notices the invisibility ray under another pinball machine. she crawls over to get it.
invisible warren: she can't find us if we split up.
scene direction: willow picks up the ray gun and fiddles with it.
invisible warren: you go that way.
invisible jonathan: which way?
invisible warren: that way! over- punch noise. an invisible person goes flying into a room-sized container of plastic balls.
invisible buffy: just keep talking, boys.
scene direction: willow gets to her feet, fiddling with the invisibility ray. punching noises continue.
invisible jonathan: ow! watch the chest hair!
invisible buffy: i know that voice. you-you're- willow aims the ray at the voices and fires. buffy and jonathan become visible. buffy is holding jonathan up by the front of his shirt.
buffy: jonathan?!
scene direction: she lets him go and he falls to the floor.
buffy: you have chest hair?
scene direction: willow fires at the plastic-ball-room. warren appears.
buffy: warren?
scene direction: warren glares.
scene direction: willow fires at the smashed pinball machine. andrew appears.
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: who are you?
andrew: andrew.
scene direction: buffy shrugs and shakes her head to show her lack of recognition.
andrew: i summoned the flying monkeys that attacked the high school?
scene direction: willow and buffy exchange a confused look.
scene direction: warren climbs out of the plastic balls. jonathan gets up and helps andrew down from the pinball machine.
andrew: during the school play, you know?
warren: it's tucker's brother.
jonathan: yeah, it's tucker's brother.
buffy and willow: ohh.
scene direction: the geek trio stands side-by-side. willow moves over to stand beside buffy.
buffy: so you three have, what, banded together to be pains in my ass?
scene direction: warren walking sideways with the other two following him
warren: we're your arch-nemesises ... ses.
scene direction: warren buffy and willow looking confused
warren: you may have beaten us this time, slayer, but next time ... um ... uh, next time...
jonathan: maybe not!
scene direction: jonathan throws something down in front of the trio. it bursts into smoke and sparks (see episode "life serial"). behind cover of the smoke we can see (but buffy and willow can't) the trio running off.
scene direction: buffy and willow cough, wave the smoke away.
scene direction: warren os
warren: what do you mean, it's locked? you were supposed to check it!
scene direction: andrew os
andrew: i forgot!
scene direction: the smoke clears to reveal the trio standing by the back door looking sheepish.
buffy: i give you my arch nemesises...ses.
scene direction: buffy frowns
scene direction: a security guard comes up behind buffy and willow.
guard: what's going on in here?
scene direction: guard buffy and willow turn to look at him
guard: i got a bunch of scared kids saying this place is haunted!
scene direction: sound of a door opening. buffy turns back to see the back-door closing behind the escaping trio. buffy sighs and looks irritated.
scene direction: willow surprised
willow: oh my god, buffy!
scene direction: buffy pouting
buffy: i know, they're gone. i guess we should chase them.
willow: no, your hair!
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: it *is* adorable.
scene direction: buffy looks surprised, puts up her hand to feel her hair, gives a rueful smile.
scene change: cut to buffy and willow exiting the arcade. willow still carries the invisibility ray.
buffy: pretty neat, you finding the van.
scene direction: buffy they begin walking down the street
buffy: so ... how did you manage to ... do it exactly? i mean, to locate it?
willow: the hard way. the spell-free way. the oh-my-god-my-head's-gonna-fall-off,
scene direction: willow grimaces, whines
willow: my-feet-are-killing-me way.
scene direction: willow sighs, makes a pained face, sits down on the edge of the curb. buffy sits beside her.
willow: i don't know how i got through this day.
buffy: well, the important thing is that you did. it's a ... good first step.
willow: how are you doing, post-invisibleness?
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: okay. i still have to do some damage control from my giddy-fest. dawn was pretty freaked out.
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: the whole taking-a-vacation-from-me thing didn't work out so well.
scene direction: willow nods
willow: tell me about it.
buffy: except ... when i got xander's message ... you know, that i was ... fading away ... i actually got scared.
willow: well, yeah. who wouldn't?
buffy: me. i wouldn't. not too long ago i probably would have welcomed it. but i realized ... i'm not saying that i'm doing back-flips about my life, but...
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: i didn't ... i don't ... wanna die.
scene direction: buffy looks hopefully at willow
buffy: that's something, right?
willow: it's something.
scene direction: longer shot of the two of them sitting there side-by-side on the curb, looking morose.
willow: so i guess we both made good first steps.
buffy: i guess.
willow: yay for us.
buffy: yay.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon.
scene direction: the en 