scene direction: open on a small table with several stakes and daggers on it.
scene direction: reveal buffy who begins putting the weapons into a bag. we're in the summers living room. dawn stands behind buffy.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i'm sorry.
dawn: it's okay.
buffy: no, we're gonna sit down and have a real dinner. someday. i hate having to run out in the middle, it's just, you know, there's this thing out there. definitely non-vampire.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: i understand.
scene direction: buffy picks up the bag, goes toward the door.
dawn: well, maybe when you get back we can set up for your party tomorrow.
buffy: yeah. uh, this could take a while though, i-i wouldn't wait up.
scene direction: buffy putting on her coat
buffy: besides, willow promised to be on birthday patrol, so there's nothing left for us to do.
scene direction: buffy smiling
dawn: right.
buffy: okay, so, finish dinner, homework, and don't stay up too late, all right?
dawn: okay.
buffy: okay.
scene direction: buffy turns to go. dawn watches with a smile. as soon as the door closes behind buffy, dawn stops smiling. stands there, alone, looking unhappy.
scene change: cut to graveyard, night. buffy walks along holding a large axe with a metal handle.
scene direction: suddenly a large demon with red skin and a spiny crest on its head leaps out behind her. buffy whirls around. the demon swings a large sword at her. she ducks, then blocks with her axe.
scene direction: the demon's sword bends the axe handle, then pulls it out of buffy's hand. it flies off and lands in the ground.
scene direction: the demon swings at buffy again and she gets hold of his sword arm, twists it around behind his back. suddenly the demon shimmers and disappears.
scene direction: buffy looks around in confusion.
scene direction: the demon reappears behind her. she kicks him in the face, punches him, kicks again. he falls back. his sword goes flying up into the air.
scene direction: buffy catches the sword on its way down. the demon charges her. she stabs him right in the stomach. blue light flashes out in a circle from the wound. the demon roars and grabs his stomach.
scene direction: buffy pulls the sword out and falls back onto the ground. the sword lands point-down in the ground.
scene direction: the demon falls to his knees, still roaring. he shimmers and turns into a bolt of silver light that shoots over to the sword and into it. we can see his face reflected in the sword's blade.
scene direction: buffy is still on the ground, facing the other way.
buffy: run off, huh? afraid to face a true warrior?
scene direction: she gets up and sees the sword.
buffy: ooh, shiny.
scene direction: she smiles, pulls the sword out of the ground and twirls it around. walks off, holding it.
scene direction: wolf howl, opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open in the magic shop. anya stands by the shelves dusting statues.
anya: do you think we should set up lots of candles for buffy's party tomorrow?
scene direction: pan over to reveal xander and willow sitting at a small round table doing paperwork.
xander: not if they're that horrible slug kind you keep trying to unload.
scene direction: anya walking past
anya: i don't know why people get so turned off by slug.
xander: honey, slugs get turned off by slug.
scene direction: xander to willow
xander: oh, actually, i wanted to talk to you about that.
willow: slugs?
xander: no, the party. or, tara ... at the party.
willow: oh.
xander: it's just ... buffy really wants her there. it seems important to her, so i told her i'd ask you.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: oh ... yeah, of course, she should totally be there. it'll be great.
scene direction: dawn enters. she wears a red t-shirt with a beige sweater over it, and has a red coat over her arm.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: hey!
willow: hey, dawnie. buffy, uh, out patrolling already?
scene direction: willow dawn nods
xander: so, uh, anything new about warren and the nerd herd?
dawn: no, just a big monster hunt.
xander: man, a nerd goes into hiding, he really goes into hiding.
dawn: does anybody want to come to the mall with me for birthday presents?
willow: oh, i would, honey, but ... i've got my group. you know, the whole spellcasters anonymous thing? we're still looking for a better name.
dawn: oh. well, yeah, uh, no, that-that's good. you should ... do that.
scene direction: dawn beat
dawn: so what about you guys?
anya: stuck in doing-the-books-ville.
xander: aw, i'd love to go with you, but i gotta finish this new shift schedule for the crew by tomorrow morning.
scene direction: dawn looks disappointed.
willow: sorry, it just looks like one of those nights. you know?
dawn: yeah.
willow: you okay going on your own?
dawn: yeah. somehow i'll, uh, manage to pull it off.
scene direction: willow gives her a little smile. dawn grimaces, turns to leave.
scene change: cut to overhead shot of sunnydale, night.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the summers house.
scene change: cut to inside. dawn enters the front door, cautiously, looking around. she is wearing the red coat.
scene direction: pan across the foyer into the empty dining room.
dawn: buffy?
scene direction: dawn starts up the stairs.
scene change: cut to dawn's bedroom. overhead shot of dawn as she enters, closes the door behind her, turns on the light. she puts her purse on the bed and reaches into her coat pockets.
scene change: cut to a closer shot as she pulls a handful of jewelry from the pockets, still with the price tags attached. she looks at the handful for a moment, puts it on the bed, takes out another handful of jewelry and puts that on the bed too. she takes off her red coat, revealing a tight shiny leather jacket that she wears over the red t-shirt.
scene direction: she goes over to the closet, opens the door revealing a full-length mirror. she checks out the jacket in the mirror. we can see the price tag still hanging from the sleeve. she pulls the jacket tightly around her.
scene change: cut to high school classroom, next day. pan across bored students.
teacher: ...if we can come up with things jim lost during his years in shanghai, and things he gained.
scene direction: teacher shot of dawn doodling
student: excuse me.
teacher: who wants to- a student comes in and gives the teacher a piece of paper.
teacher: dawn.
scene direction: dawn looks up, alarmed.
teacher: they need you in the guidance office.
scene direction: dawn continues looking alarmed as she gathers up her stuff.
scene change: cut to long shot of dawn walking down an empty hall lined with lockers.
guidance counselor voiceover: i'm sorry, i didn't mean to scare you.
scene change: cut to the outside of the office. through opened venetian blinds we can see dawn sitting across the desk from the guidance counselor woman.
guidance counselor: just a follow-up after your ... your loss. and since i'm new here, i thought it would give us a chance to know each other.
scene change: cut to inside the office. the guidance counselor is a fairly young woman wearing a small blue pendant around her neck.
dawn: great.
guidance counselor: so, i've been looking through your file
scene direction: guidance counselor shuffling papers on her desk
guidance counselor: and, um ... your grades have slipped a little.
dawn: i have really hard classes this quarter.
guidance counselor: yeah, still. teachers say that you seem a little distracted lately.
dawn: i'm not. i-i'm fine.
guidance counselor: okay. it's just, you know, i know it must seem weird,
scene direction: guidance counselor small laugh
guidance counselor: talking to a stranger about stuff, but, um ... i want you to know that if something's going on, something's up, my job ... the most important part of my job ... is looking out for you.
scene direction: she smiles. dawn looks surprised, returns a very small smile of her own.
dawn: i'm really okay.
scene direction: the counselor nods slowly, sits back.
guidance counselor: i know there's been ... a lot of loss.
scene direction: dawn looks down.
scene direction: dawn quietly
dawn: yeah. kinda.
scene direction: dawn looks up
dawn: i-i mean, yes. people keep ... people have a tendency to go away ... and, i miss them. and sometimes ... i wish i could just make them stop. going away.
scene direction: the counselor smiles. dawn pauses, waves her hands dismissively.
dawn: but seriously, it's, it's no big deal. i'm fine.
scene change: cut to close shot on a table laden with several trays of hors d'oeuvres.
scene direction: xander os
xander: we're feeding an army!
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: no, they couldn't make it.
scene direction: pan out to reveal that it's the island in buffy's kitchen. anya is preparing the food while buffy sits opposite. xander stands beside anya.
xander: so, who's coming, you invite anyone else?
buffy: just you guys. willow, tara. the gang. oh, and sophie from work.
scene direction: xander and anya look at her, exchange a look.
buffy: what? like i'm one of those losers who can't make friends outside her tight little circle? no. i'm friendly. we bonded instantly. peas in a pod. bonded peas.
anya: really? um, what's sophie's last name?
scene direction: buffy thinks for a moment, frowns.
scene direction: buffy pouting
buffy: okay, shut up.
xander: don't worry about it, we're all over the new friend thing.
scene direction: xander anya smiling
buffy: what ... new friend thing?
scene direction: anya smiling
anya: well, well ... we invited someone for you.
scene direction: buffy looks horrified.
scene direction: anya whispers
anya: a guy.
scene direction: dawn entering
dawn: for buffy? really?
scene direction: dawn smiling
xander: ahh, don't worry, it's not a setup.
scene direction: anya grinning
anya: right. no. just an attractive single man, with whom we hope you find much in common.
scene direction: anya buffy looking annoyed
anya: and if you happen to form- xander: ahn- anya: -a romantic relationship leading to babies- xander: ahn- anya: -and many double dates with us so we have someone else to talk to, yay!
scene direction: xander looks uncomfortable.
buffy: i assume this was an act of kindness?
scene direction: buffy xander looking embarrassed
buffy: that'll help with the not throttling.
scene direction: buffy gives xander a meaningful look. he gives a fake laugh.
xander: hey, i'm just gonna get this stuff out there, people should be here soon.
scene direction: he picks up some of the food.
scene change: cut to the foyer, later. buffy opens the door to reveal tara, holding a small gift box.
buffy: hey! you made it!
scene direction: they smile and hug.
tara: of course, sweetie.
scene direction: tara pulls back
tara: so, how're you doing?
buffy: oh, you know. better. mostly.
scene direction: buffy tara looking sympathetic
buffy: sometimes.
tara: so, is, um...
scene direction: tara looks around
tara: spike coming?
buffy: no. he may be a chip-head, but ... he still doesn't play too well with others.
scene direction: tara smiles, turns to put down the gift and hang up her coat.
buffy: besides, i'm definitely not ready to, to...
scene direction: tara turns back
tara: come out.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: yeah. i'm all ... stay-inny.
scene direction: tara smiles and nods.
scene change: cut to upstairs. willow is standing in front of a mirror, very nervously adjusting her clothing.
scene direction: cut back to downstairs.
buffy: how are you doing?
scene direction: tara anxious
tara: the word "gulp" comes to mind.
scene direction: buffy sympathetic
buffy: just remember, we're all here...to...
scene direction: willow appears at the top of the stairs, coming down. tara looks nervous.
buffy: ...i have to, with the thing that i, uh... coming!
scene direction: buffy exits ungracefully. tara and willow face each other nervously.
willow: hey.
tara: hey.
willow: hey.
scene direction: willow pause
willow: how are you?
tara: fine, thanks, i'm ... i'm fine. i, how are you?
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: great! i mean...
scene direction: willow stops smiling
willow: fine. i'm, i'm ... finey mcfine. fine.
tara: y-you look...
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: thanks.
scene direction: willow stops smiling, looks embarrassed
tara: i mean ... great.
scene direction: willow embarrassed
willow: thanks. you do too. is that a new- tara: oh, yeah.
scene direction: willow glancing nervously at her dress
willow: it's nice.
tara: thanks.
scene direction: very awkward silence.
tara: i-i'm gonna get something to drink.
willow: oh, yeah, great. you should.
scene direction: tara exits toward the kitchen.
scene direction: willow muttering to herself
willow: you don't wanna get thirsty.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. buffy is filling paper cups from a large pitcher. tara enters.
buffy: hey, how did it- tara: yes please.
scene direction: tara takes a cup from buffy's hand and drinks. buffy looks surprised.
scene direction: knocking at the back door. buffy stands up.
scene direction: spike enters, holding a 6-pack of beer under one arm. someone else enters behind him but we can't see who it is.
scene direction: buffy surprised
buffy: spike.
spike: yeah. willow mentioned the shindig ... figured we're all part of the team.
scene direction: we see that spike still has a large bruise over one eye from being beaten by buffy in "dead things." buffy gives tara a nervous look.
spike: thought i'd, uh, swing by.
scene direction: reveal the other person behind spike. it's the loose-skinned demon from the poker game in "life serial." buffy frowns.
buffy: wait, what kind of team is this?
demon: hi. we met once before.
buffy: yes, yes we did.
spike: you know, more, merrier, that whole thing.
scene direction: demon to tara
demon: hi, i'm clement. clem.
tara: tara.
scene direction: xander enters with a young hunky blond man wearing a red shirt (star trek fans, take note).
xander: buffy, richard.
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: hey.
xander: he was wondering where the best place was to park his car.
buffy: oh, that's easy, just
scene direction: buffy pointing
xander: buffy will show ya.
scene direction: xander shoves richard toward buffy. they look at each other nervously.
buffy: okay, uh...
scene direction: buffy to tara
buffy: i'll be right back.
scene direction: over richard's shoulder, buffy looks at spike. he raises one eyebrow.
scene direction: buffy takes richard's arm and leads him toward the front. richard pauses in the doorway.
scene direction: richard whispers
richard: uh ... the guy with the...
buffy: skin condition. he doesn't like to talk about it.
scene direction: buffy leads richard away.
spike: stupid git!
scene direction: spike closing the back door
tara: i don't know. he seemed ... cute. w-was he cute? i mean, i'm not a very good judge, but...
scene direction: spike scowls.
scene direction: tara grinning
tara: i think he seemed cute.
scene direction: clem agreeably
clem: i think he seemed cute, yeah.
scene direction: spike gives them both a look of outrage.
scene change: cut to the living room. xander sits on the sofa; dawn and anya stand nearby.
dawn: if we get buffy, can, can she start on opening the presents? it's been enough time, hasn't it?
anya: not yet, sweetie.
xander: i think buffy's busy right now.
scene direction: anya as if talking to a small child
anya: buffy's making a new friend. a grown-up friend.
dawn: what, you mean the guy you invited to set her up with?
anya: nothing.
dawn: it's not like i don't understand why you invited him. i was there, remember? i can hear you when i'm in the room, you know?
scene direction: dawn anya just nodding
dawn: i do understand these things.
scene direction: anya patronizing
anya: yes you do!
scene direction: anya patting dawn on the head
dawn: you know i'm in high school, right?
anya: yes you are!
scene direction: dawn stares at anya in disbelief.
scene change: cut to buffy coming down from upstairs. spike intercepts her in the foyer and backs her into a corner.
spike: you wanna slip away for a minute, luv?
buffy: what?
spike: i'll let you blow out my candles.
buffy: here. now? i don't think so.
spike: oh, what, you worried about richard? you don't wanna make your new boyfriend jealous, huh?
scene direction: buffy grinning
buffy: shut up. he's ... sweet.
scene direction: spike teasing
spike: "oh, shut up, he's sweet." buffy: maybe he's not the jealous one.
scene direction: spike looks surprised. buffy moves past him and away.
spike: you think he'll take you out on his ten-speed, pet?
scene direction: spike to himself
spike: maybe he'll let you ride in that little basket in the front.
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: jealous my ass.
scene direction: he sighs, looks around in frustration.
scene change: cut to later. buffy sits on the sofa, looking skeptically at a device with a large head with two round knobs on it.
buffy: uh...
scene direction: we see willow sitting on buffy's right. dawn sits on buffy's left, fidgeting very obviously.
willow: see? i-it's a battery-operated back massager. and it's portable so you can take it with you on patrol.
scene direction: buffy dubious
buffy: wow.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: it's like, instant gratification for all your little acheys.
scene direction: buffy looks over at spike leaning in the doorway.
scene direction: spike raises his eyebrow and gives his best suggestive smirk.
scene direction: buffy quickly
buffy: great! thanks!
scene direction: buffy puts the massager aside
buffy: uh, what's next?
scene direction: dawn excited
dawn: here, do mine.
scene direction: dawn turns to pick up a large flat box behind her, gives it to buffy. buffy begins unwrapping it.
scene direction: shot of spike watching, glancing over at clem.
scene direction: shot of clem and tara watching.
scene direction: buffy removes the paper to reveal a plain white box. she opens it and looks inside.
scene direction: buffy surprised
buffy: dawn.
scene direction: close shot on the box, containing the black leather jacket that dawn was wearing earlier.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: do you like it?
scene direction: buffy lifting it out of the box
buffy: it's ... gorgeous.
dawn: i was so nervous. i was afraid you wouldn't like it.
scene direction: buffy looks at the jacket, frowns.
scene direction: close shot on the sleeve which has the security tag attached.
buffy: i-it still has the security tag on it.
scene direction: dawn looks alarmed, covers quickly.
dawn: huh. that's so weird. i can't believe they didn't take that off.
scene direction: buffy stares at her.
scene direction: xander os
xander: happy birthday, buffy!
scene direction: everyone turns to see xander and anya wheeling in a large wooden chest.
buffy: oh my god!
scene direction: xander and anya place the chest in the middle of the room and gesture proudly.
buffy: did you guys make that?
scene direction: buffy gets up, thrusting the box with the jacket into dawn's lap. dawn looks dismayed.
anya: uh, well, uh, xander did the building.
scene direction: anya dawn still looking upset
anya: i offered helpful suggestions while observing from a safe distance.
scene direction: buffy kneels down to open the chest. xander holds the lid open and leans over to speak softly so richard won't hear.
xander: holds basic weapons,
scene direction: xander buffy smiling
xander: plus a few non-basic ones too.
scene direction: xander loudly
xander: plus, there's a handsome cd holder.
scene direction: shot of dawn looking disgusted, folding the jacket back into the box.
scene direction: anya os
anya: we wanted you to have something no one else would have.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: a xander harris original.
scene direction: sound of the doorbell ringing.
buffy: i love it. thanks, you guys!
scene direction: buffy leans across the chest to kiss xander on the cheek. in background we see tara opening the front door.
tara: buffy?
scene direction: buffy hugs anya, turns around.
buffy: oh! sophie!
scene direction: we see a nervous-looking young woman standing in the doorway.
buffy: welcome!
scene direction: buffy sophie exchanging smiles with tara
buffy: uh, we're somewhere between, uh, presents and cake.
scene direction: buffy to anya
buffy: there is gonna be cake eventually, right?
scene direction: buffy anya nodding
scene direction: sophie walking into the living room
sophie: hey. uh, my mom told me to say thank you right away, 'cause, otherwise i usually forget. so, thank you.
scene direction: buffy and anya listen to this politely. we see spike in the background watching.
sophie: and, also, um, i can't have any, any chocolate, or, or peanuts or egg yolks.
scene direction: anya whispers to buffy
anya: is this the friend you brought from work?
buffy: yes.
sophie: a-and sometimes dairy.
buffy: no problem.
scene direction: sophie looks around at the others.
scene direction: clem gives her a friendly smile and wave. tara smiles too.
scene direction: anya whispers to buffy
anya: our friend is better.
scene direction: dawn gets up and moves toward the foyer as sophie moves farther inside. spike remains leaning against the door frame.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: uh, we can do official introductions now that everyone's officially here. dawnie, you mind getting the door?
scene direction: dawn goes past spike and tara to the open door.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: sophie, this is anya ... and willow...
scene direction: shot from on the porch looking in. dawn stands in the doorway, looks unhappily back at the party, then outside. slowly, she closes the door.
scene direction: pan across the outside of the door to the porch. dawn's guidance counselor walks out of the shadows, on the porch. she walks over to the front door, smiling slightly.
scene direction: she stops walking and her face morphs into demon-face -- she is halfrek. she speaks in her deep resonant demon voice (see episode "doublemeat palace").
halfrek: wish granted.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on the party. loud rock music is playing. pan across sophie and clem dancing together. pan across willow sitting in a chair with xander sitting on its arm, both talking and moving to the beat. pan to the sofa where anya sits waving her hand to the beat. dawn sits beside her, looking bored.
scene direction: zoom in on dawn. she looks like she's trying to pretend she's enjoying herself. she experiments with a couple of different smiles.
scene change: cut to the foyer. buffy comes out of the dining room and encounters richard in the hall.
richard: hey.
buffy: hi.
richard: great party. everyone's havin' fun.
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: i hope so.
richard: i mean, look what time it is and no one's even thinking about leaving. i, uh ... can't tear myself away.
scene direction: buffy smiling uncertainly
buffy: yeah?
richard: yeah. can i get you a drink?
scene direction: behind richard we see spike appear in the living-room doorway, observing.
buffy: uh ... i'm good, thank you.
richard: okay.
scene direction: buffy awkward
buffy: i think i'll just ... head back in.
richard: well ... i'll look for you.
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: okay.
scene direction: richard smiles, goes past her and into the dining room.
spike: ooh, buffy.
scene direction: spike buffy rolling her eyes
spike: can i get you a soda pop? i think i'm in looove.
scene direction: spike walks up to her, smirking. he tries to take her hands but she pulls them away. but she is smiling too.
buffy: stop it. someone's gonna see.
scene direction: she walks toward the kitchen. spike follows, stops her at the doorway, putting one hand on the wall beside her head to block her way.
spike: mm-hmm.
scene direction: he puts his other hand on her shoulder, runs it down her arm, takes her hand and pulls it onto his thigh.
scene direction: someone appears at the other end of the hall. buffy quickly pulls her hand back as both she and spike look over.
scene direction: it's tara, looking a bit taken aback.
scene direction: buffy glances at spike, pushes past him and exits toward the kitchen.
scene direction: spike looks at tara with a slightly nervous smile. tara looks innocent.
spike: i had ... a ... muscle cramp. buffy was, uh, helping.
scene direction: tara small grin
tara: a muscle cramp? in your ...
scene direction: tara looks down at him, then away
tara: pants?
spike: what, it's a thing.
scene direction: tara grinning
tara: right.
scene direction: she walks off. spike looks disgruntled.
anya voiceover: no, you go.
scene change: cut to the dining room. xander sits in a chair with anya on his lap, both nuzzling each other in disgusting coupley fashion. sophie and willow sit opposite.
scene direction: xander teasing, nuzzling
xander: no, you go.
scene direction: anya teasing, nuzzling
anya: no, you go.
willow: okay!
scene direction: xander and anya stop, look over at willow.
willow: it's just a beer run, i'll go.
sophie: oh, well, i can't really drink beer, 'cause you know, barley. but i'll go with you to get some.
willow: perfect. here we go. the beer-gettin'.
scene direction: they all continue to sit there, not moving. after a moment willow leans over and puts her head on the table.
scene direction: xander and anya resume nuzzling.
scene change: cut to the living room. dawn, buffy, richard, and anya are playing monopoly on the coffee-table.
buffy: this sucks. i'm out.
scene direction: buffy giving money to anya
richard: no way. i think you're doing fine.
scene direction: pan over to the other table where clem, xander, spike, and tara are playing cards.
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: you wanna try poker?
clem: still say it's weird without the kittens.
buffy: no kittens.
scene direction: buffy richard giving her a funny look
buffy: he's quirky.
richard: look, we've already been playing for like three hours, it's, you know, it's like two-something in the morning. you can't bail now.
anya: yeah, come on, buffy, stay. i wanna bankrupt somebody.
scene direction: anya buffy giving her a sour look
dawn: oh! we should totally have a slumber party.
scene direction: buffy uncertain
buffy: oh, i don't know...
scene direction: buffy looking around
buffy: i guess, as long as everyone's staying up anyway.
spike: must be some late-night activities to keep us busy till morning.
scene direction: spike giving buffy a suggestive look
scene direction: spike buffy glaring at him
tara: how's that cramp, spike? still bothering you?
spike: what? oh. yeah.
tara: maybe you, uh, wanna put some ice on it.
scene direction: tara gives an innocent little smile. spike looks confused, frowns, looks at his cards.
scene direction: shot of the foursome playing monopoly.
scene direction: close shot of dawn looking around and smiling hugely.
scene change: cut to later. sunlight coming in the windows. willow and sophie are asleep on the sofa. xander, dawn, and clem sit on the floor watching cartoons on tv. the monopoly game, food, beverages, presents, etc. are scattered everywhere.
scene direction: pan across the room to buffy and spike sitting on the floor beside the new weapons chest. buffy is shuffling the deck of cards.
scene direction: richard enters from the kitchen.
richard: hey xander, we gotta be at work in a few minutes.
scene direction: close shot of the three watching tv.
scene direction: xander staring at tv
xander: okay.
scene direction: shot of the cartoons playing on the tv.
richard: i can't be late today.
spike: you should definitely go. let's find your coat and get you on your merry way.
buffy: spike.
scene direction: richard confused
richard: i don't know why i'm not leaving.
spike: me either. besides, richie, you can't skip breakfast. growing boy like you.
scene direction: spike buffy glaring at him
spike: me, i used to love breakfast. in the old days, i probably would have eaten by now.
scene direction: spike looks menacingly at richard
buffy: of course, with that new diet of yours, you wanna be careful what you try puttin' in your mouth now, spikey.
scene direction: buffy giving him a meaningful look
spike: yeah? i don't know. tummy's making all kinds of gurglies. maybe i oughta just feed on whatever's around...
scene direction: spike buffy looking at richard. richard looking bemused
spike: even if it doesn't go down well.
scene direction: spike to richard
spike: you, uh, work out?
buffy: okey-dokey.
scene direction: buffy quickly gets up, grabs spike by his sleeve, hauls him to his feet and toward the door.
scene direction: buffy to richard
buffy: 'scuse us.
scene direction: buffy hauls spike into the foyer.
buffy: hey, mister passive-aggressive guy. seriously, you wanna take it down a notch or two in there?
spike: what, poor dainty richard can't take a joke?
scene direction: buffy firmly
buffy: we do not joke about eating people in this house!
scene direction: spike angrily
spike: what are you gonna do, beat me up again?
buffy: i should have thrown you out the second you got here.
scene direction: buffy spike rolling his eyes
buffy: i was insane to ever think you could just hang out with my friends.
spike: and *i* was insane to think...
scene direction: spike pauses
spike: no, wait. you were right. *you're* insane.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. tara is pouring milk into a bowl of cereal.
scene direction: willow os
willow: oh, hi.
scene direction: tara looks up
tara: hey.
scene direction: willow walks over, stands by the island across from tara.
tara: breakfast. didn't really plan for a sleep-over.
willow: i know, me either. it's weird, i ... i have class, and i know i should go, but..
scene direction: willow sits
tara: i know, i-it's like, i wanna leave, but i don't want to.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: exactly.
scene direction: tara smiles back.
scene direction: cut back to the foyer. buffy and spike continue arguing.
scene direction: buffy angrily
buffy: i think it's time for you to go.
spike: yeah, well, can't.
scene direction: spike gesturing
spike: daylight.
buffy: okay. i'll go.
spike: i'll get the door.
buffy: fine!
spike: fine!
buffy: i'm actually trying to move right now.
scene direction: spike quieter
spike: me too.
scene direction: they both stand there, not moving. buffy sighs, frowns.
buffy: well ... this can't be good.
scene direction: spike shakes his head, agreeing.
scene change: cut to the living room. the entire party is gathered. they all sit or stand around, staring at each other.
buffy: there's something keeping us in this house.
xander: or someone.
tara: has everyone tried to get out?
willow: what if we just, like, as a group, got up and, and threw ourselves at the door?
xander: all right. count of three.
scene direction: xander everyone preparing
xander: one ... two ... three!
scene direction: no one moves.
xander: here we go!
scene direction: still nothing. buffy looks around.
scene direction: shot of dawn sitting off to the side, looking sullen.
buffy: hence the problem.
richard: i really need to go. i mean, i have a job to get to.
anya: i have to open the magic box.
sophie: i have a shift at the doublemeat.
scene direction: sophie thinks
sophie: actually, i'm okay here.
clem: yeah, i'm, i'm fine.
xander: willow and tara have class, i gotta be at the site.
buffy: i know, i know, we all have places that we'd rather be.
scene direction: shot of dawn looking up at that, looking upset.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: things we'd rather be doing.
buffy: i think the first priority has to be to find a way out.
dawn: sure. of course you all wanna leave.
scene direction: dawn buffy looking at her
dawn: 'cause being stuck in here with me, that would really suck, right?
scene direction: buffy frowns slightly.
willow: no, dawnie! it's just, we have more important things to do.
scene direction: dawn disgusted
dawn: yeah, i know. important.
scene direction: dawn gets up
dawn: whatever that means, right?
scene direction: dawn storms past them and up the stairs. they all watch her go. everyone looks at buffy.
scene change: cut to dawn's bedroom. dawn runs in, flops down on her stomach on the bed.
scene direction: buffy enters, followed by tara, willow, xander, and spike.
buffy: dawn?
dawn: what?
buffy: did you do something?
scene direction: dawn exasperated
dawn: me?
tara: do you know something? 'cause we want you to feel like you can tell us.
scene direction: dawn sits up, turns to face them.
scene direction: dawn angrily
dawn: what would i know?
willow: look, we're not accusing you of anything, it's just ... you were kind of taking it personal down there.
dawn: oh. okay. so you've all just decided that somehow i'm responsible.
scene direction: dawn sourly
dawn: great. here's me baskin' in the love.
xander: no, it's just, you know, you're upset 'cause we all wanna leave. and now we can't leave. only thing missing is a cornfield. there ... there isn't a cornfield, is there?
buffy: dawnie, it's okay. you know, we're not gonna be mad.
dawn: yeah, only i didn't do anything!
willow: you sure?
dawn: you want me to ask my other self?
buffy: dawn, we're just trying to figure out what's going on.
scene direction: dawn angrily
dawn: figure it out yourself. i'm done being talked to like a kid.
xander: well, 'cause you know, sometimes we do something that seems like a good idea at the time, like, say, invoke the power of a musical amulet? and it turns out, you know, not so much.
dawn: god! i didn't do anything! i wish i had.
scene direction: dawn buffy frowning
dawn: i'm glad you're trapped.
scene direction: dawn very angrily
dawn: how else can i get anybody to spend any time with me?
buffy: dawn. if you want us to spend time with you- dawn: i don't. get out.
scene direction: buffy stares at her.
scene direction: dawn shrieking
dawn: get out, get out, get out!
scene direction: the others exit, leaving only buffy and dawn. dawn turns away angrily, lies down on her stomach on the bed again. buffy stares at her for a moment, then leaves.
anya voiceover: i think she's possessed.
scene change: cut to downstairs. anya and xander sit side-by-side on the sofa.
xander: she's a teenager.
scene direction: we see buffy, willow, and spike sitting around too. tara comes in from the dining room.
tara: phones are all out, we're totally cut off.
scene direction: they all sigh and groan.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: she's just so angry.
tara: it happens. we all went through it.
buffy: i know. i just can't figure out why she didn't come to me.
xander: well, you have been a little busy lately.
scene direction: xander and anya look at buffy. she looks grim.
spike: hey, i don't wanna keep you all from the touchy-feelies, but maybe the encounter group can meet later. say, when we're not trapped in a house.
tara: even if dawn does know something, she's obviously not gonna help us right now. we need another way.
buffy: i think magic's gonna be our best bet.
scene direction: buffy willow looking alarmed
buffy: something general, you know? cast a wide net.
scene direction: buffy tara nodding
xander: but ... willow.
scene direction: xander gesturing toward willow with his head
tara: no, i'll do it.
scene direction: tara willow fidgeting nervously
tara: it's just, o-obviously i didn't bring any supplies.
scene direction: willow looks guilty.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: well, we don't have any in the house. we got rid of everything.
willow: actually ... not everything.
scene direction: willow guilty
willow: i, uh... might have ... kept one or, or two things. sort of.
scene direction: tara and buffy look shocked.
willow: ...just in case.
xander: that's great!
scene direction: beat. anya, tara, and buffy look somber.
xander: ...in a very bad way.
scene direction: xander shaking finger at willow
scene direction: tara sighs, stands up.
scene direction: tara to willow
tara: just ... bring me what you have.
scene direction: tara firmly
tara: but i'm doing this alone. you need to stay away from it.
scene direction: tara exits, leaving the others to sit around looking grim.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the house, day.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. buffy and xander watch as tara mixes ingredients, using kitchen implements and bowls. she scoops a damp mixture of herbs from one bowl into another and mashes it down.
scene change: cut to the foyer. willow, spike, and anya stand in a row in front of the front door.
anya: so we're supposed to just wait?
willow: it won't take long.
scene direction: sophie, richard, and clem appear in the dining-room doorway.
richard: all right, somebody wanna tell me what's, what's going on here? we're trapped in a house by ... by what, some unseen force or something.
scene direction: richard gesturing at the door
richard: who knows what she's doing in there.
scene direction: richard pointing to the kitchen
richard: and i have to tell you...
scene direction: richard looks back at clem scratching his head with clawed fingers
richard: i don't think that's a skin condition.
scene direction: cut back to the kitchen. tara uses a match to set her mixture on fire, then blows out the match. red smoke billows up out of the bowl.
scene direction: shot of the smoke curling in a wavy line through the door toward the living room.
tara: release.
scene direction: the smoke curls over to where the demon sword is sitting, leaning against a china cabinet. the smoke swirls around the sword.
scene direction: tara calls
tara: try the door!
scene direction: spike steels himself. close shot of his hand curling into a fist. close shot of his feet trying to move.
scene direction: shot of the sword as the last of the magic swirls into it and a silvery puddle begins to swirl out of it onto the floor.
scene direction: close shot on spike's face as he grits his teeth and concentrates on the door.
scene direction: close shot on the closed door.
scene direction: willow and anya both look at spike.
scene direction: close shot on spike's fist uncurling.
scene direction: spike annoyed
spike: no. can't.
scene direction: they all look disappointed. richard, sophie, and clem walk out into the foyer to join the other three. they all stare at the door. spike rubs his forehead.
scene direction: close shot on the still-closed door.
scene direction: cut back to the living room. the fully re-formed demon picks up his sword. he growls. sunlight glints off the sword blade.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the foyer. clem, sophie, willow, spike, anya, and richard stand staring at the closed door. the demon attacks them from the living room, growling. everyone scatters, some of them screaming.
scene direction: the demon enters the foyer and swings his sword, slashing richard across the stomach. on the back-swing, his sword arm hits spike, who grabs the arm and struggles with the demon.
scene direction: buffy, xander, and tara enter from the kitchen. buffy tackles the demon, both landing on the living-room floor. spike follows them in.
scene direction: the demon melts into the floor and disappears. buffy sits up, frowning, then stands up. she and spike exchange a confused look.
scene direction: xander, tara, and anya bend over the injured richard.
scene direction: the demon reappears behind buffy, lifting his sword in both hands. buffy grabs his hands. he shoves her back. she flies into spike, and both of them go down. the demon disappears again.
scene direction: buffy gets to her feet again.
spike: what the bloody hell was that?
buffy: that's the demon i killed two nights ago.
spike: the demon you thought you killed.
xander: it looks pretty bad.
scene direction: buffy looks over in horror at richard.
anya: oh god. oh, god.
scene direction: they roll richard over onto his back, revealing a bloody gash that goes all the way across his stomach.
tara: let's get him upstairs.
scene direction: tara to buffy
tara: we need to get him to a doctor soon.
scene direction: buffy addressing everyone
buffy: hey, i-it's gonna be okay.
scene direction: spike looks annoyed, gets up off the floor.
buffy: just trust me, i promise we'll be out of here soon.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the house, night.
scene change: cut to inside. sophie stands holding a curtain aside, looking out at the darkness.
sophie: oh god. oh god.
scene direction: pull back to reveal the living room. spike stands a little ways behind sophie, arms folded. buffy walks into the shot between them.
buffy: okay, so maybe 'soon' was a bit of an overstatement.
spike: so, you ever think about *not* celebrating a birthday? just to try it, i mean.
buffy: i'm gonna go check upstairs. keep an eye on things down here?
scene direction: spike nods. buffy turns to go.
buffy: you stay here, okay?
scene direction: we see that buffy was addressing dawn, who sits on the sofa looking sullen. close shot on dawn as buffy exits.
scene direction: weird creaking noises. dawn looks around in alarm.
scene direction: spike looks around too.
dawn: what's that noise? it's in the walls, isn't it?
scene direction: spike leans close to the wall, listening. creaking noises continue. spike moves slowly along the wall, listening.
scene change: cut to willow's bedroom. richard lies on the bed trembling and breathing shallowly. tara sits beside him, tending to his wound. willow stands nearby.
scene direction: creaking noises continue. willow and tara look around nervously.
scene direction: tara resumes cleaning richard's wound with a piece of gauze and a bottle of antiseptic. richard looks around nervously. the noises continue.
scene change: cut to the hallway. buffy walks along slowly, holding a dagger, looking around. looking the other way, she comes upon clem and they both gasp in alarm.
scene direction: clem nervously
clem: sorry.
scene direction: buffy sighs.
scene change: cut to another part of the house. anya and xander sit on the floor. anya is panting and fiddling with the lapels of her white blouse, which is partly unbuttoned. she wears a black tank-top underneath it.
anya: why is it so hot in here?
xander: you're just a little freaked out, that's all. it'll pass.
anya: he's gonna die. he's gonna die, and we're gonna watch.
xander: ahn...
anya: and we're just sitting here. why are we just sitting here? why aren't we doing something?
xander: we are. we will. we've been through worse.
scene direction: anya panting, rubbing her chest
anya: not like this. not trapped like animals. seriously, did someone turn on the heat?
scene direction: anya unbuttoning her blouse
anya: i can't breathe, i just ... oh, i just can't breathe ... i can't breathe...
scene direction: xander grabbing her hands
xander: ahn, stop. stop, ahn, stop!
scene direction: he manages to stop her, and she turns to look at him.
xander: listen to me. you're just freaking out, okay? it's normal. you're just ... you're just scared. we all are. we'll come up with a plan ... and we'll get through it, all right?
scene direction: xander anya nodding, creaking noises continue
xander: we'll do something.
anya: what?
xander: i don't know.
scene direction: xander brushing hair out of her face
xander: lemme get you some water, okay?
scene direction: xander anya nodding
xander: it'll cool you down. i'll be back in a second, okay? stay here, don't move.
scene direction: he gets up and leaves. anya sits there panting.
scene change: cut to the foyer. xander comes down the stairs. creaking noises continue. he looks around nervously. he reaches the bottom, turns toward the kitchen.
scene direction: suddenly the demon emerges from the wall behind xander and grabs him from behind.
scene direction: shot of anya sitting in the dark by herself as we hear xander scream.
scene direction: shot of xander being held around the middle, arms pinned to his sides, with the sword at his throat.
scene direction: shot of spike hearing, running toward the noise.
anya: xander?
scene direction: xander struggles with the demon. spike rushes in, grabs the demon's sword arm and tries to pull it away. but he can't, so instead he knuckle-punches the demon in the ribs. the demon growls and hits spike with his elbow. spike goes down.
scene direction: the demon throws xander aside. he hits the wall and crouches there.
scene direction: buffy rushes in, still holding the dagger. the demon turns to attack her. she ducks a sword-thrust. the demon kicks her dagger hand, and the dagger goes flying.
scene direction: the demon whirls around with the sword, slicing xander's arm. then turns back to buffy.
buffy: grab the sword!
scene direction: she kicks the demon and ducks another swing as spike gets up and grabs the demon's sleeve, punches it in the face. the demon flings spike back and he goes down yet again.
scene direction: buffy grabs the demon's arms and kicks him in the stomach. he reels back and melts into the wall again.
scene direction: spike gets up on his elbows and both he and buffy watch the demon disappear.
buffy: are you hurt?
scene direction: shot of xander on the floor, groaning in pain.
buffy: here, let me see.
scene direction: buffy takes a step forward but doesn't actually go to either of the men.
scene direction: anya os
anya: xander.
scene direction: xander looks up. anya stands at the foot of the stairs staring at him.
scene direction: xander gets painfully to his feet and goes to anya.
xander: it's okay. i'm okay, see? shh.
scene direction: he strokes her face gently and leans his forehead against hers.
scene direction: xander whispers
xander: it's all right. i'm okay.
scene direction: shot of buffy watching this wistfully.
scene change: fade to later. buffy comes around a corner from the dining room to the foyer, and finds dawn standing against a wall. creaking noises continue.
buffy: it's getting kinda scary. you okay?
scene direction: dawn sullen, not looking at buffy
dawn: do you care?
scene direction: buffy exasperated
buffy: fine. stay with spike.
scene direction: buffy walks off.
scene change: cut to upstairs. buffy walks into her bedroom. dawn comes in behind her.
dawn: it's not like i meant for this to happen.
buffy: i never said that you did.
dawn: i didn't want this.
scene direction: buffy turns to face her.
buffy: what did you want?
scene direction: dawn softly
dawn: nothing.
buffy: dawn, come on.
dawn: no. you don't know! you have this thing you do. you have all these friends.
scene direction: dawn softly
dawn: you have no idea what it's like.
buffy: what are you talking about? i don't know what, what- dawn: being alone!
buffy: you're not alone!
dawn: then why do i feel like this?
scene change: cut to the dining room. tara and spike standing next to each other.
tara: i just think we haven't thought of the right way out yet, that's all.
scene direction: reveal xander and willow standing nearby, and anya sitting at the dining-room table.
spike: well, we can't just stay put like cattle, waiting for that thing to pop out every time it gets peckish.
tara: i'd say we do another spell, but i, i think we've tried everything.
anya: well ... that's not completely true, is it?
scene direction: anya tara frowning
anya: i mean, not everything.
scene direction: anya looks at willow
anya: not exactly.
scene direction: anya willow looking nervous
anya: we're sitting here with an incredibly powerful witch ... much more powerful than you, tara, i'm sorry ... only no one seems willing to say it.
willow: i can't.
anya: no, see, that's not exactly true either.
scene direction: anya angrily
anya: not can't, won't.
willow: you don't know how much i hate this. i don't know if there's even ... anything i could do.
anya: yes ... and a good way to find out is to sit around and try nothing. that was sarcasm, by the way.
spike: look- willow: it's dangerous.
anya: and so is all of us dying!
xander: will ... look, i don't wanna gang up on you ... but anya kinda has a point.
scene direction: xander willow looking anxious
xander: we brought you back from it once. we're all here, it's just one little spell,
scene direction: xander spike shaking his head
xander: whatever happens, we can bring you back again.
scene direction: willow firmly
willow: no. i can't.
scene direction: willow to anya
willow: if i start, i ... i might not be able to stop.
anya: and whose fault is that?
scene direction: anya stands up, walks toward willow
anya: you know, if you hadn't gotten so much of this in your system in the first place- tara: hey! you're gonna back off!
scene direction: tara gets in between willow and anya, faces anya down.
tara: she said no, and that's it. you're not gonna make her do something that she doesn't want to. and if you try...
scene direction: tara folds arms across her chest
tara: you're gonna have to go through me first. understood?
scene direction: anya glares at her.
anya: fine. if you all aren't willing to get us out of this, then i will do it myself.
scene direction: anya walks past the witches and goes up the stairs.
scene direction: shot of sophie and clem sitting on the sofa, watching anya. then exchanging a look.
scene change: cut to buffy's bedroom. buffy and dawn sit on the bed side-by-side.
buffy: i wish you would have told me.
dawn: you haven't really been...
buffy: what? i haven't been what?
dawn: around.
buffy: dawn ... the most important job that i have ... is looking out for you.
scene direction: dawn small smile
dawn: you sound like my guidance counselor. she give you a handbook or something? 'talkin' to the troubled teen'?
scene direction: buffy frowning
buffy: counselor?
dawn: it wasn't my idea. i didn't even know we had guidance counselors. she called me out of class like i was a total j.d.
buffy: and you'd ... never met her before?
dawn: no, not until yesterday.
buffy: and ... she got you to start talking about things that bothered you at home?
scene direction: dawn uncertain
dawn: uh ... yeah?
buffy: you didn't, by any chance, happen to ... express like a, a wish, or-or something, to her?
scene direction: dawn nervous
dawn: um ... maybe just a little.
scene direction: sound of thumping and crashing. dawn and buffy look up, both jump up.
scene change: cut to dawn's room. anya is pulling books and stuff off the shelves.
xander: honey, come on, this isn't the way, calm down.
scene direction: anya still searching
anya: she knows something. she knows something, we have to find out what it is.
scene direction: anya begins looking through the drawers of dawn's desk. dawn and buffy enter.
dawn: hey!
xander: ahn, just stop for a second.
anya: there's gotta be a clue in here somewhere.
dawn: stop it!
scene direction: dawn starts forward, but buffy stops her.
buffy: anya, it wasn't her fault.
scene direction: anya picks up a small red box from the desk.
dawn: no!
scene direction: anya opens the box and dawn's stash of stolen jewelry falls out onto the floor.
scene direction: anya stares in shock, bends down to look. xander, buffy, and dawn stare in varying degrees of surprise and dismay.
anya: half this stuff is from the magic box.
scene direction: anya picks up a few things, then picks up the entire handful, straightens up and glares at dawn.
anya: how could you do this?
scene direction: buffy looks at dawn, who looks upset and goes running out of the room. anya follows, then buffy and xander.
scene change: cut to downstairs. dawn comes running down the stairs with the others in pursuit.
anya: i work hard at that store, and i helped you!
scene direction: anya grabs dawn's arm, turns her around
anya: i took care of you. this is how you say 'thank you'?
scene direction: buffy comes up beside anya.
buffy: anya, hold on, okay?
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: tell her you didn't do this. tell her it's a mistake.
scene direction: suddenly buffy spots something over by the sofa. she looks shocked, walks that way.
scene direction: dawn anguished
dawn: no!
scene direction: buffy walks over, stares down at the box holding the black leather jacket that dawn gave her.
buffy: oh.
scene direction: buffy looking at dawn
scene direction: dawn upset
dawn: buffy...
anya: how are we supposed to trust you, dawn? i mean, you ... you say you didn't put us here, but look at this stuff! how are we supposed to believe you?
scene direction: shot of all the others gathering around.
buffy: look, i-i don't think she- i don't think it's all her fault, okay? she ... there was a guidance counselor, or someone pretending to be a guidance counselor, she, she made dawn make a wish.
anya: guidance counselor? you made a wish to someone you've never seen before?
scene direction: dawn nervous
dawn: yeah?
anya: did she wear a pendant with a, with a dark blue stone?
dawn: and little red flecks?
anya: uhh, for crying out loud.
scene direction: anya yells
anya: halfrek!
scene direction: anya to dawn
anya: it's halfrek, a vengeance demon. you made a wish to a vengeance demon.
dawn: i didn't know.
anya: only a vengeance demon can break her own vengeance spell. nothing else will work. she's the only one who can get us out of here.
scene direction: anya yells
anya: hallie, get your ass down here!
scene direction: halfrek materializes just behind anya, in a puff of smoke.
scene direction: halfrek deep resonant voice
halfrek: you rang?
scene direction: anya turns toward her.
scene direction: suddenly halfrek gasps and looks down.
scene direction: close shot of halfrek's stomach with the end of a sword protruding out of it.
scene direction: close on halfrek's face as she collapses to the floor, revealing the demon standing behind her.
scene direction: close on buffy staring in horror.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. the demon attacks buffy who grabs his hands and then punches him.
scene direction: anya punches him from behind as well, distracting him.
scene direction: anya punching
anya: i hope you die, you stupid jerkface!
scene direction: the last punch sends him reeling back. he swings his sword and anya leaps on him from behind, struggling with his sword arm while buffy kicks him in the stomach. spike leaps into the fray too, grabbing the demon from behind.
scene direction: the demon flings anya off, she lands on the sofa. he flings spike off too and swings the sword around randomly. buffy ducks, watching for an opening.
xander: anya!
scene direction: xander ducks under the sword swings and runs over to the sofa.
scene direction: the demon hits buffy in the face and she reels back. spike attacks again, distracting the demon so buffy can kick him. the demon falls to the floor and melts into it, disappearing.
scene direction: the demon immediately reappears behind spike, who grabs his sword arm. the demon drops the sword. spike continues holding his arm and kicking him.
spike: the sword!
scene direction: buffy picks the sword up off the floor as spike continues struggling with the demon. spike gives him a kick in the stomach and he reels backward as buffy attacks with the sword.
scene direction: the demon turns and runs into the wall, disappearing into it. buffy thrusts the sword into the wall where he went. the same blue light appears, suffusing everything as the others watch. the demon roars angrily.
scene direction: close on the sword as the blue light fades and the hole in the wall closes up, the demon once again trapped in the sword.
scene direction: buffy pulls the sword out of the wall and breaks it in two over her knee, causing one last flare of blue light. she throws the two halves down.
scene direction: buffy looks over at halfrek, who lies on the floor not moving.
anya: her pendant! get her pendant!
scene direction: anya and buffy rush toward halfrek. but before they reach her she sits up and puts out her hand toward anya, who goes flying backward onto the sofa again. buffy stares.
scene direction: halfrek normal voice
halfrek: there will be no touching of the pendant.
scene direction: halfrek gets to her feet and brushes herself off, as everyone stares at her in surprise.
halfrek: what?
scene direction: halfrek laughs
halfrek: did you think i'd be stopped by a sword in the chest?
scene direction: she looks down at her chest, pulls at her blouse so we can see the rip in it.
halfrek: flesh wound.
scene direction: halfrek anya getting up
halfrek: honestly, anyanka, you used to know better.
scene direction: anya coming closer
anya: how could you? why would you do this?
halfrek: i told you i was going to take care of some business while i was here in town.
anya: yeah, but cursing us? some of them are in the wedding party.
halfrek: i just go where i'm- halfrek pauses, looking to her right as spike walks up.
scene direction: halfrek shocked whisper
halfrek: william?
scene direction: spike frowning
spike: hey, wait a minute.
buffy: you guys know each other?
scene direction: shot of willow, clem, sophie, and tara getting up and approaching slowly.
scene direction: halfrek still staring at spike, but now she snaps out of it.
scene direction: halfrek quickly
halfrek: uh, no.
scene direction: halfrek laughs
halfrek: no.
scene direction: she fiddles with her hair nervously.
scene direction: spike still frowning
spike: not really.
scene direction: shot of buffy looking confused.
tara: i thought vengeance demons only punished men who wronged women.
halfrek: oh, that was anya's little raison d'tre. most of us try to be a little more well-rounded. and actually, we prefer 'justice demon.' okay? fyi.
anya: well-rounded, huh? is that how you explain your thing for bad parents?
halfrek: oh, it's not a thing. the children need me.
anya: hmm!
scene direction: anya coughing
anya: addy issue
scene direction: anya coughing
halfrek: sling all the little barbs at me that you want, anyanka, it doesn't change the fact that this girl was in pain,
scene direction: halfrek pointing at dawn
halfrek: and none of you could hear it.
scene direction: halfrek dawn looks down
halfrek: i could hear her crying out everywhere i went in this town.
scene direction: halfrek anya looking guilty
halfrek: it was unbearable. and none of you knew.
scene direction: halfrek looks at buffy, shaking her head. buffy looks upset.
halfrek: you people deserve to be cursed.
scene direction: halfrek shot of the others listening
halfrek: enjoy your time together. from now on ... all you have is time.
scene direction: halfrek to anya
halfrek: time ... and each other. good luck!
scene direction: shot of spike frowning. shot of buffy looking upset. shot of the others watching.
scene direction: dramatic music swells. halfrek makes a dramatic motion with both arms, but does not disappear. she looks surprised.
halfrek: wait ...
scene direction: halfrek nervous laugh
halfrek: wait.
scene direction: shot of buffy looking surprised. shot of spike raising his eyebrows.
scene direction: halfrek muttering to herself
halfrek: time, and each other.
scene direction: dramatic music. dramatic arm gesture. halfrek again fails to disappear. she looks annoyed.
scene direction: anya rolling her eyes
anya: it's the curse, hallie.
halfrek: oh, for crying out loud. fine, the curse is lifted! we can all leave now! ... damn it.
scene direction: she snaps her fingers and disappears.
scene direction: everyone else looks relieved and excited. spike looks over at buffy, who just looks pensive.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. tara is packing remnants of herbs into plastic baggies while willow watches.
willow: thanks ... for before. and, and for taking this stuff with you.
scene direction: tara nodding
tara: no problem.
willow: just so you know, i-i was never ... gonna use it. i mean, not really, i ... i just kept it like a safety net. 'cause ... there was always this ... thing in the back of my head. this, you know, voice, saying, like, 'what if things get bad, i mean really bad? and what if you can't handle it?' a-and it made me panic, so ... that's why i kept a couple of things. i ... kept them so i-i didn't have to think about it, so i could focus on ... on getting better.
tara: i get it. i-i really do. but it's time to work without the net, will.
scene direction: tara willow looking anxious
tara: you know, i don't know if you noticed, but it actually did get bad in there. really bad, and ... and you still said no.
scene direction: tara smiles, goes back to her task. willow slowly begins to smile too.
scene change: cut to the foyer. anya and xander come down the stairs, supporting richard between them. richard grimaces in pain. the others all gather around.
richard: you have some weird friends.
xander: news from the file marked 'duh.'
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: we're gonna get him to the e.r.
scene direction: xander buffy nodding
anya: and then we're gonna talk about payment. and dawnie, there are two words i want you to get used to...
scene direction: shot of dawn looking nervous.
scene direction: anya os
anya: punitive damages.
scene direction: buffy to spike
buffy: think it's worn off?
spike: just one thing to do.
scene direction: spike walks toward the door. everyone watches him anxiously.
scene direction: he takes hold of the doorknob, looks around at the others, opens the door with a flourish.
scene direction: xander smiles happily. he and anya begin carrying/helping richard out.
scene direction: willow, tara, sophie, and clem follow excitedly.
scene change: cut to outside. xander and anya, with richard supported between them, emerge onto the porch. the others are close behind.
anya: okay, who's pushing?
scene direction: they all start down the stairs.
tara: wow, look at the stars!
scene direction: clem turning back to give buffy a thumbs-up
clem: good party!
scene direction: buffy remains in the foyer, giving a wry smile at clem's remark.
scene direction: xander os
xander: i just wanna run barefoot on the grass so i can feel the dew-drops between my... god, look at the stars!
scene direction: spike gives buffy a similar wry smile, then turns and walks out as well.
scene direction: shot from inside, pointing out the front door at the group as they walk down the path to the street.
scene direction: shot from outside, pointing in the front door as only dawn and buffy are left. buffy walks forward, goes over to the doorway.
scene direction: dawn turns and follows, stands a little ways behind buffy, watching her sadly. buffy looks at dawn.
scene direction: shot from outside. buffy takes hold of the door and closes it. dawn's face slowly breaks into a smile as the closing door hides them from our view.
scene direction: blackout 