scene direction: open on a dark street, night. buffy walks along, wearing a jacket, cap and gloves, holding two pieces of stapled-together paper that she studies as she walks.
scene direction: zoom in closer and we see the paper is a list titled "new rentals." the first page has a series of paragraphs, each one crossed out with red pen.
scene direction: buffy stops walking, frowns at the paper, looks up at a nearby house, walks toward it.
scene change: cut to close shot on a computer monitor showing buffy walking toward the camera.
scene direction: pan over and we see several more monitors next to it on a desk. pan further and we see jonathan sitting there, leaning his head on his hand, asleep. in background we see andrew reading something. andrew looks up.
scene direction: the barrel of a gun appears, inches from jonathan's head. suddenly water squirts out of it and all over jonathan's face. he wakes up and jumps up with a gasp. andrew bursts into laughter. we see warren holding the super-soaker.
andrew: oh man, your face was priceless.
scene direction: jonathan angry
jonathan: yeah, real funny.
warren: it serves you right for taking z's on lookout again.
jonathan: what do you expect? i haven't had a decent night's sleep since...
scene direction: jonathan warren glaring at him
jonathan: i mean, i'm going jack torrence in here, you know? stuck in this basement for weeks! i mean, we rented the whole house, can't we at least sleep upstairs?
andrew: we're on the lam. we have to lay low. underground?
jonathan: it's figurative, doofus! did you even read legion of doom?
scene direction: jonathan andrew jumping up in outrage
warren: okay, enough! midgetor, get back to the monitors. the last thing we need is to be surprised by-
scene direction: andrew looking at monitors
andrew: holy geez louise.
scene direction: pan over to the monitors where another view reveals buffy peering in the windows of the house.
jonathan: the-the-
warren: the frickin' slayer.
jonathan: she's right there!
warren: all right, don't panic. andrew ... deploy your little friend.
scene direction: andrew grins and nods. he turns and picks up a very long wooden tube about three inches in diameter, painted with various abstract designs. he sits back in his chair, puts his mouth to one end of the tube and blows. it makes a low sound like a flugelhorn.
scene change: cut to outside. buffy, walking around the building, hears the horn sound. she continues walking. she rounds a corner and finds an alley, dark, containing a pickup truck and a car.
scene direction: buffy walks into the alley, looking from her piece of paper to the house and back.
scene direction: something drops from the roof of the nerds' house and lands behind buffy. she turns to look at it.
buffy: oh. hi.
scene direction: it's an ugly demon with waxy skin and weird marble-like eyes. it growls and advances.
buffy: you didn't by chance happen to just eat a couple of nerds, did you?
scene direction: the demon takes a swing at her and she leans back to avoid it. it swings again and then tries a roundhouse kick, which buffy ducks underneath. she blocks a punch and punches it in the stomach, then kicks it back. the demon hits her and she goes down. it grabs her and throws her against the car. she lands on the hood, sits up and kicks the demon with both feet. as it reels back, she stands up on the hood. the demon goes to punch her and she leaps up onto the car's roof. the demon punches the hood where she just was.
scene direction: it tries to hit her legs but she jumps up, crouches on the hood and kicks the demon again. she does a flip off the car onto the ground while kicking the demon again, and it goes down. buffy picks up a metal garbage can and slams it down onto the demon. it gets up as she raises the can for another blow. the demon shoves the garbage can out of buffy's hands, then hits her in the face. she spins around and ends up with her face pressed against the car window. the demon grabs her from behind, she spins around again and hits it. it reels backward. they trade kicks and the demon's head goes through the car window, breaking it.
scene direction: close shot on the demon's hand pressed against the car door. a long thin bony spike suddenly shoots out of its knuckle.
scene direction: the demon struggles with its head and shoulders still inside the car. buffy grabs it and it elbows her off, turns around, grabs her and holds her tightly against its body.
scene direction: the demon raises its hand with the spike still sticking out of it. buffy sees the spike for the first time and looks alarmed. the demon stabs the spike into her shoulder. buffy screams.
scene direction: flash-cut to a room with plain white walls. buffy is in the corner between two walls, wearing a plain gray shirt, screaming and struggling as two men try to hold her down. one man is injecting something into her arm in exactly the spot where the demon skewered her.
man 1: you're gonna hurt yourself!
man 2: she's gonna break the needle.
scene direction: man 2 removes needle from buffy's arm
man 2: we're gonna have to strap her down.
scene change: buffy continues struggling and gasping. cut to a wider shot. we see a bed in the middle of the room, with leather restraints strapped to it. there are two narrow windows next to where the two men are struggling with buffy. the men both wear plain white outfits.
scene direction: slowly buffy stops struggling and goes limp, still panting. the two men hold her upright against the wall.
scene change: cut to the hallway. we see a door with a small square window, through which we can see into the room where buffy is.
scene direction: a young man in a gray outfit similar to buffy's walks by, accompanied by a man in a doctor's jacket.
scene direction: pan to wider shot and we can clearly see the hallway of this hospital, populated with other patients and doctors and nurses.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on buffy in the alley, leaning against the car, apparently unconscious. she comes to with a start, looks around, makes an expression of pain and rubs her arm. she straightens up and looks around, frowning. no sign of the demon.
scene direction: buffy pushes away from the car and begins to walk off, still holding her arm.
scene change: cut to uc sunnydale campus, day. various students walking around, etc.
scene direction: willow os
willow: hi, um, tara, how are you?
scene direction: pan across a building and we see willow in a hallway, looking out a window, talking to herself.
willow: w-well, i-i was wondering, maybe, you would wanna go out sometime? for coffee ... food ... kisses and gay love?
scene direction: willow sighs
willow: hi tara. guess what? magic-free now for, insert number, days now.
scene direction: among the other students walking around we see tara approaching, walking down the hallway on the other side of the wall from willow. willow sees her, looks nervous, moves to intercept.
scene direction: willow comes around the wall with a big nervous smile on her face.
scene direction: long shot of tara walking up to another girl. they smile at each other and the other girl kisses tara either on the cheek or lips -- hard to tell.
scene direction: willow looks shocked.
scene direction: shot of tara and the other girl laughing and talking.
scene direction: willow quickly turns and starts walking away.
scene direction: tara bids the other girl good-bye and continues walking. she spots willow's back among the crowd, pauses, frowns slightly.
scene change: cut to close shot on a pile of french fries sitting in a hopper a heat lamp. more fries in the boiler cooking.
scene direction: pan up to reveal buffy in double meat palace uniform. the fryer beeps and she removes the basket of cooking fries from the hot oil, sets it to drain. she grimaces as if in pain, turns to walk away.
scene direction: lorraine os
lorraine: buffy.
scene direction: we see lorraine (buffy's boss) standing a few feet away, next to a countertop.
lorraine: buffy.
scene direction: buffy turns toward her. flash-cut to the asylum. buffy is again wearing her gray outfit and is turning.
scene direction: we see a woman in a doctor's coat, standing exactly as far away as lorraine was, next to a counter.
female doctor: come on, it's time for your drugs.
scene direction: buffy begins to breathe faster, fearful.
scene direction: flash back to the double meat palace.
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: what?
lorraine: i said, if i didn't know any better, i'd think you were on drugs.
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: okay. good.
scene direction: lorraine rolls her eyes and turns away.
scene direction: buffy turns and walks back to the french fries. she lifts the basket out of the fryer and dumps its contents into the hopper under the heat lamp. we see that the new batch of fries is burnt black.
scene change: cut to the summers house. buffy, wearing a turtleneck sweater, comes down the stairs and goes into the dining room.
buffy: whatcha doin'?
scene direction: we see willow sitting at the table typing on her laptop computer.
willow: i'm online, checking to see if xander emailed.
scene direction: buffy sits
buffy: any luck?
willow: no such.
scene direction: buffy hopeful
buffy: well, maybe anya found him and they're trying to work it out.
scene direction: buffy willow shrugs
buffy: how come you're all, home, hearth, and dsl anyway? i thought you were gonna go see tara.
scene direction: willow unhappy
willow: saw her. saw her completely.
buffy: ouch. just got a scratch from all that brittle.
willow: it's...
scene direction: willow closing laptop
willow: ...when i was seeing her, she was seeing someone else. a girl.
buffy: you mean-
willow: i mean ... not "seeing" seeing. well, maybe. i don't know, it was inconclusive, and i didn't stick around to find out. might have magicked my fist through a wall or something,
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: will, i'm sorry.
willow: i mean, they're probably just friends.
scene direction: willow pouty
willow: i press my lips against my friends' all the time.
buffy: i'm sure they're just friends. once you fall for willow, you stay fallen.
willow: thanks, buffy.
scene direction: the doorbell rings. they both look up.
scene change: cut to the front door. it opens and xander comes in, looking toward the dining room.
xander: hi.
willow: xander?
xander: i'm back.
buffy: xander?
willow: xander, you're here!
scene direction: the girls come into the foyer and they all share a group hug.
willow: we missed you, where were you?
xander: i know, i tried calling, but i couldn't without...
buffy: hey. you don't need to explain to us.
scene direction: they all walk back into the dining room. buffy and willow resume their previous seats while xander remains standing.
xander: right. is she here?
willow: oh ... n-no, you ... wanna find her?
xander: i need to. her suitcase is gone and some of her stuff. there's a closed sign on the magic box, which, like, chills me to the bone.
willow: she left a couple days ago.
xander: was she looking for me?
scene direction: xander willow fidgeting
xander: before she left, did she say anything?
willow: you mean, between sobs?
scene direction: willow xander looking guilty
willow: there was mostly just wheezing.
buffy: she was a little ... she was ... kinda broken.
xander: i don't know how stuff got so mixed up!
scene direction: xander sighs
xander: i blew it.
buffy: no. well ... maybe it wasn't the best time to break up with her, but...
xander: no. it wasn't about breaking up. i love her, and god, i miss her so much.
willow: so, you left her at the altar, but you still wanna-
buffy: you still wanna date?
xander: i guess. i know that i'm a better person with her in my life. but things got so complicated with the wedding, and with my family, and with her ... demons, and ... what if it all goes to hell, a-and forever?
scene direction: xander the girls looking sympathetic
xander: but then i left ... and ever since ... i've had this painful hole inside.
scene direction: xander buffy looking pensive
xander: and i'm the idiot that dug it out.
scene direction: xander takes a deep breath, shakes his head sadly.
xander: i screwed up real bad.
buffy: hey. we all screw up.
scene direction: xander doesn't look comforted.
scene change: cut to the graveyard. spike walks along carrying a paper grocery bag. as he walks, he takes out a cigarette and puts it in his mouth.
spike: you lookin' for me?
scene direction: we see buffy walking away from him.
buffy: really not.
scene direction: the camera stays on buffy as, in the background, spike puts down his bag and takes out his lighter.
spike: oh. right then. off you go.
scene direction: spike lighting up
spike: did you cry?
scene direction: buffy stops walking
buffy: what?
spike: the wedding. two hearts joined for eternity, great pelting showers of rice and so forth.
buffy: you didn't hear.
scene direction: she turns and walks back toward him.
spike: what? families get out of hand? tear the place apart?
buffy: no. well, yes, absolutely. but ... xander left. the wedding didn't happen.
scene direction: spike surprised
spike: well. gotta say ... i didn't see that coming.
scene direction: spike sits on a bench
buffy: it was awful.
scene direction: buffy sits nearby
buffy: anya was devastated.
spike: is that right.
buffy: and, xander ... thinks maybe they can still get back together, but ... he hurt her a lot.
spike: yeah, well ... some people can't see a good thing when they've got it.
scene direction: he gives buffy a meaningful looks. buffy glares at him. he returns to his cigarette.
scene direction: xander os
xander: spike.
scene direction: willow and xander walk up, holding stakes.
xander: i shoulda known you'd be tagging along.
scene direction: buffy stands
buffy: hey, guys. i, uh ... i found spike and was, uh, trying to figure out what kind of dangerous contraband he had.
scene direction: spike looks disgusted, gets up
spike: tell you what, slayer.
scene direction: spike drops his cigarette and grinds it out with one foot
spike: let me get out of your way.
scene direction: spike picks up grocery bag
spike: i'll stop bothering you.
xander: yeah, maybe you should do that, spike, just run along.
spike: you know, i guess you know all about that, don't you?
scene direction: spike going over to xander
spike: the king of the big exit.
scene direction: spike xander lookng upset
spike: heard it brought the house down.
xander: i don't need this crap from you.
spike: right. let's not listen to spike.
scene direction: spike turns to look at buffy
spike: might get a bit of the truth on you.
scene direction: spike gets in xander's face. willow quickly moves to separate them.
willow: okay, okay. heh. calm now.
scene direction: willow spike and xander glaring at each other
willow: let's, uh, turn around and release this very manly thing the other way.
xander: i forgot. willy wannabite can't hurt me.
scene direction: xander to spike
xander: dumb to pick a fight, i guess.
willow: xander.
scene direction: shot of buffy suddenly looking dizzy, falling to her knees. the others don't notice.
scene direction: buffy weakly
buffy: guys...
spike: more than happy to beat you right through the pain, you pathetic poof.
scene direction: spike tosses his bag of groceries aside.
scene direction: xander punches spike in the face. spike goes down hard.
scene direction: buffy sits back down on the stone bench, her head bent down to her chest.
buffy: guys, don't.
scene direction: flash-cut to the asylum. buffy has her head down and hands pressed to her temples.
man: buffy, can you hear me?
scene direction: buffy looks up.
scene direction: a man in a doctor's coat sits down in front of her. she stares at him. we see that she is again pressed into the corner where two walls meet, sitting on the floor with her knees drawn up against her chest. her hair is flat and limp and she wears bland gray hospital clothing.
scene direction: buffy panting
buffy: what is this?
doctor: do you know where you are, buffy?
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: sunnydale.
doctor: no, none of that's real, none of it. you're in a mental institution.
scene direction: doctor buffy frowning at the floor, shaking her head
doctor: you've been with us now for six years. do you remember?
scene direction: buffy frowns in extreme confusion, lifts her head again to look at the doctor.
scene change: cut to longer shot of the room. the bed with the restraints is still there. buffy is sitting in the corner and the doctor sits on a chair next to her.
scene direction: close shot on buffy's distressed face.
scene direction: cut back to the cemetery. spike goes tumbling over backward, over his bag of groceries, from xander's punch.
scene direction: willow and xander rush over to buffy.
willow: buffy? are you okay?
xander: what happened?
scene direction: buffy slowly lifts her head.
scene direction: flash back to the asylum. the doctor reaches his hand out toward buffy. she flinches back, trying to push herself even farther into the corner. she turns away and hits her forehead against the wall a few times.
doctor: it's okay, buffy. buffy, it's okay.
scene direction: slowly, she turns her head to peer at him through her hair.
doctor: look. look who's here.
scene direction: the doctor looks behind him.
scene direction: pan over to reveal joyce standing by the door with hank behind her.
joyce: buffy?
scene direction: buffy stares. joyce comes forward and crouches down to bring herself to buffy's level. hank stands behind her leaning down with hands on his knees.
joyce: welcome home, sweetie.
scene direction: buffy stares at her mom in shock.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: same scene.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: mom?
scene direction: joyce tearful
joyce: oh, baby, you're really here.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: dad?
doctor: she's lucid. keep talking, maybe the sound of your voice will ground her.
scene direction: close on buffy's anguished face.
hank: sweetheart ... we've missed you very much. honey, can you hear me?
scene direction: buffy starts to cry, puts her hands to her head again.
joyce: oh, buffy, stay with us, please.
scene direction: flash back to the cemetery. buffy has her hands to her head as willow and xander come over and take her arms.
buffy: oh ... no!
scene direction: she slowly lifts her head, looks around.
spike: here, let's get her back to my crypt.
xander: spike, just go, okay?
scene direction: xander buffy looking confused
xander: she's our friend, we'll take care of her.
scene direction: xander and willow help buffy stand up.
buffy: no, guys, i'm okay. i'm okay.
willow: come on, xander, help me get her home.
scene direction: they lead her off. spike watches them go.
scene direction: spike calls
spike: put a little ice on the back of her neck.
scene direction: he turns away, picks up his bag of groceries.
scene direction: spike to himself
spike: she likes that.
scene direction: he walks off shaking his head.
scene change: cut to the summers house. willow walks from the kitchen, holding a glass of water.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: i've been having these flashes. hallucinations, i guess.
scene direction: willow comes into the living room where buffy is sitting in the armchair. willow gives buffy the water.
willow: since when?
buffy: uh ... night before last.
scene direction: willow sits on the sofa, where xander and dawn are already sitting looking at buffy.
buffy: i was, uh, checking houses on that list you gave me, and looking for warren and his pals ... and then, bam! some kind of gross, waxy demon-thing poked me.
xander: and when you say poke...
scene direction: buffy rolling her eyes
buffy: in the arm.
scene direction: buffy xander and willow exchanging a look
buffy: it stung me or something, and ... then i was like ... no. it, it wasn't "like." i *was* in an institution. there were, um ... doctors and ... nurses and, and other patients. they, they told me that i was sick. i guess crazy. and that, um, sunnydale and, and all of this, it ... none of it ... was real.
xander: oh, come on, that's ridiculous! what? you think this isn't real just because of all the vampires and demons and ex-vengeance demons and the sister that used to be a big ball of universe-destroying energy?
scene direction: xander pauses, frowns
buffy: i know how this must sound, but ... it felt so real.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: mom was there.
dawn: she was?
buffy: dad, too. they were together ...
scene direction: buffy distantly
buffy: like they used to be ... before sunnydale.
scene direction: willow stands up hastily, raises her hand
willow: okay! all in favor of research?
scene direction: willow xander raises his hand
willow: motion passed. all right, xander, you hit the demon bars. dig up any info on a new player in town.
scene direction: close on buffy squinching up her face as if in pain.
scene direction: willow os
willow: dawnie, you can help me research. we'll hop on-line, check all the-
scene direction: flash back to the asylum. crazybuffy is sitting in the chair with her face squinched up in the same way.
scene direction: doctor os
doctor: -possibilities for a full recovery,
scene direction: doctor shot of the doctor sitting behind a desk
doctor: but we have to proceed cautiously. if we're not careful--
joyce: wait.
scene direction: reveal joyce and hank sitting in chairs across from the doctor. crazybuffy sits in another chair a little bit separated from them, with her knees drawn up again.
joyce: are you saying that buffy could be like she was before any of this happened?
scene direction: doctor gets up, comes around the desk
doctor: mrs. summers, you have to understand the severity of what's happened to your daughter.
scene direction: doctor sits on the edge of his desk
doctor: for the last six years, she's been in an undifferentiated type of schizophrenia.
hank: we know what her condition is.
scene direction: hank buffy frowning
hank: that's not what we're asking.
doctor: buffy's delusions are multi-layered.
scene direction: doctor joyce and hank listening intently
doctor: she believes she's some type of hero.
joyce: the slayer.
doctor: the slayer, right, but that's only one level. she's also created an intricate latticework to support her primary delusion. in her mind, she's the central figure in a fantastic world beyond imagination.
scene direction: doctor buffy staring into the distance, frowning
doctor: she's surrounded herself with friends, most with their own superpowers ... who are as real to her as you or me. more so, unfortunately. together they face ... grand overblown conflicts against an assortment of monsters both imaginary and rooted in actual myth. every time we think we're getting through to her, more fanciful enemies magically appear-
scene direction: buffy suddenly realizing
buffy: how did i miss-
doctor: and she's-
buffy: warren and jonathan, they did this to me!
scene direction: buffy becomes agitated, tries to get up out of her chair. the doctor reaches over to stop her.
doctor: buffy, it's all right. they can't hurt you here. you're with your family.
scene direction: buffy looks around, upset.
scene direction: buffy tearful
buffy: dawn?
scene direction: hank to doctor
hank: that's the sister, right?
doctor: a magical key. buffy inserted dawn into her delusion, actually rewriting the entire history of it to accommodate a need for a familial bond.
scene direction: doctor to buffy
doctor: buffy, but that created inconsistencies, didn't it?
scene direction: doctor buffy staring at him
doctor: your sister, your friends, all of those people you created in sunnydale, they aren't as comforting as they once were. are they? they're coming apart.
scene direction: buffy whimpers, lowers her head again.
joyce: buffy, listen to what the doctor's saying, it's important.
doctor: buffy, you used to create these grand villains to battle against, and now what is it? just ordinary students you went to high school with.
scene direction: doctor buffy staring at him
doctor: no gods or monsters ... just three pathetic little men ... who like playing with toys.
scene direction: buffy frowns anxiously.
scene change: cut to the nerd herd's new lair. warren comes down the stairs from above, holding a cardboard box, andrew behind him also carrying boxes.
warren: dude, that poison has got her drooling like a, some kind of-
scene direction: jonathan upset
jonathan: where have you guys been?
scene direction: warren pauses partway down the stairs, glances up at andrew.
warren: uh ... picking up some stuff.
scene direction: warren continues down the stairs
scene direction: andrew follows warren
andrew: and checking out buffy on the van's remote surveillance.
scene direction: warren and andrew put down their boxes. warren sits in a chair.
warren: andrew's demon pet has done some number on the slayer. got her tripping like a ken russell film festival.
scene direction: they both start doing stuff with the equipment.
jonathan: well, what kind of stuff?
warren: what?
jonathan: the packages. what's in them?
warren: well, what do you think, spanky, you think we're plotting against you?
jonathan: better not be.
scene direction: jonathan andrew rolling his eyes
warren: it's just stuff, big man. all right, you'll be in the know just as soon as you stop being all freakazoid.
scene direction: warren turns to the computers, hits some keys. blueprints appear on the screen.
warren: ah, now, there's the vault.
andrew: i still say we're gonna need eight other guys to pull this off.
warren: i never should have let you see that movie.
scene direction: jonathan looks angry, turns and heads for the stairs.
warren: wha, uh, where you going?
scene direction: warren jumps up to follow jonathan
jonathan: out. getting stuff i need.
warren: you know, i don't really think that's such a good idea.
jonathan: why not?
scene direction: warren pauses
warren: well, it's...
scene direction: warren puts arm around jonathan's shoulders, sighs
warren: it's just not safe out there ... alone.
scene direction: warren leading jonathan away from the stairs
warren: you saw how close the slayer got.
scene direction: warren jonathan looking unconvinced
warren: look, we're, we're a team. something happens to you, it happens to all of us. right?
scene direction: warren andrew watching anxiously
warren: look, i know, i know you're antsy, we all are, but you see, things, they're about to pick up. big, big time. just gotta be careful. right? all right? stick together. okay?
scene direction: warren slaps jonathan on the shoulder in friendly fashion and returns to his seat.
scene direction: andrew looks relieved.
scene direction: jonathan does not look reassured.
scene change: cut to the summers house. buffy sits on the sofa, staring at a photo of joyce, hank, and young buffy (from episode "the weight of the world"). they are all smiling and happy together.
scene direction: willow enters holding a piece of paper.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: look, buffy, i found the demon. fits your description and symptoms perfectly.
scene direction: willow sits next to buffy and holds out the paper. buffy puts down the photo, still looking pensive.
willow: look, is this it?
scene direction: close shot on the paper with a picture of the demon. buffy looks at it, nods without saying anything.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: see, it's gonna be okay. its pokey stinger carries an antidote to its own poison.
scene direction: willow stops smiling as she sees that buffy isn't cheered. buffy resumes looking at the photo.
scene direction: buffy very quietly
buffy: i feel so lost.
willow: i know. you're confused. it's, it's that crazy juice inside you.
buffy: it's more than that.
scene direction: buffy willow frowning
buffy: even before the demon ... i've been so detached.
willow: we've ... all been kind of slumming.
buffy: every day i try to ... snap out of it. figure out why i'm like that.
willow: buffy, look at me.
scene direction: buffy looks at willow, her lips quivering like she's about to cry.
willow: you are not in an institution. you have never been in an institution.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: yes, i have.
willow: what?
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: back when i saw my first vampires...
scene direction: buffy shot of the photo
buffy: i got so scared. i told my parents ... and they completely freaked out. they thought there was something seriously wrong with me. so they sent me to a clinic.
scene direction: willow shocked
willow: you never said anything.
scene direction: buffy tearful
buffy: i was only there a couple of weeks. i stopped talking about it, and they let me go. eventually ... my parents just ... forgot.
willow: god. that's horrible.
scene direction: buffy crying
buffy: what if i'm still there? what if i never left that clinic?
willow: buffy ... buffy, you're not.
scene direction: willow buffy sniffling
willow: i'm ... so sorry you had to go through that. but, i-it's the past. you've got to trust me. we're gonna get you that antidote. xander's hunting the demon right now.
buffy: alone? will, he can't. it's too strong.
willow: oh, it's okay. we got help.
scene change: cut to xander and spike walking through the forest together. xander holds a flashlight.
spike: so, she's having the wiggins, is she? thinks none of us are real. bloody self-centered, if you ask me.
xander: spike, we need muscle, not color commentary.
spike: on the other hand, it might explain some things -- this all being in that twisted brain of hers. yeah. thinks up some chip in my head. make me soft, fall in love with her, then turn me into her soddin' sex slave-
xander: what?!
spike: nothing. alternative realities. where we're all little figments of buffy's funny-farm delusion. you know, in a different reality, you might not have left your bride at the altar. you might have gone through with it like a man.
scene direction: xander annoyed
xander: okay, one more syllable about anya-
scene direction: the demon leaps out at them, growling. xander yelps. we see that xander is also holding a rifle.
spike: oh, balls. you didn't say he was a glarghk guhl kashma'ni
scene direction: spike ?
xander: 'cause i can't say glar-
scene direction: the demon attacks. it knocks xander to the ground and kicks at spike, who ducks. spike punches the demon a few times and then kicks it back. xander gets up, holding the rifle. he fires a dart, which sticks in the demon's chest. the demon blocks a punch from spike, hits him and kicks him. spike spins around and falls down.
scene direction: xander hits at the demon, goes to hit it with the rifle but it blocks. we hear a metallic clanking noise as the rifle hits the demon's hand which is wearing some sort of gauntlet. the demon shoves xander onto the ground again. spike exchanges a few more punches with the demon as xander picks up the rifle again.
scene direction: xander shoots another dart which sticks in the demon's chest next to the first one. the demon ducks a kick from spike and spins around. spike grabs the demon from behind and twists its neck, rendering it unconscious.
scene direction: xander gets up and walks over. he and spike stand there panting, staring down at the demon.
xander: i altered his reality.
scene direction: xander pause
xander: get it, i...
scene direction: xander sees spike scowling
xander: never mind.
scene change: cut to buffy sitting on her bed, staring blankly into space.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: i made you some tea.
scene direction: dawn enters holding a mug. buffy doesn't look at her.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: thanks.
scene direction: dawn comes over, puts the mug on a side table, sits on the bed beside buffy.
scene direction: buffy still staring vacantly
buffy: i'm okay, dawn.
dawn: the, uh, thousand-yard stare really helps sell that.
scene direction: dawn look sympathetic, leans over and puts her hand on buffy's forehead, then on her cheek.
dawn: you're burning up.
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: i should be taller than you.
scene direction: dawn small smile
dawn: maybe you're not done growing.
buffy: coming apart.
dawn: what's coming apart?
scene direction: buffy frowning, shaking her head
buffy: we have to try harder, make things better.
dawn: i'm trying.
buffy: your grades ... stealing.
scene direction: buffy dawn looking guilty
buffy: willow's been doing your chores, hasn't she?
dawn: what? no, i-it's ... it's the fever. it's cooking your brain.
scene direction: suddenly buffy leans forward and grabs dawn's arm hard. dawn looks alarmed.
buffy: we have to deal with these things, dawn, we-
joyce voiceover: you don't have a sister, buffy.
scene direction: buffy frowns in confusion. flash-cut to the institution. joyce sits facing buffy, gazing at her. crazybuffy is still in her hospital gown.
scene direction: buffy uncertainly
buffy: dawn?
joyce: no, honey.
scene change: cut to a wider shot and we see buffy sitting on the bed and joyce sitting on it next to her, in the same positions as buffy and dawn were in the bedroom. hank sits in a chair on the other side of the bed, watching.
joyce: say it. it'll help you believe it.
scene direction: buffy uncertainly
buffy: i ... don't ... have a sister.
scene direction: buffy joyce nodding approvingly
buffy: i know i, i didn't grow up with her. these monks, they-they made her.
scene direction: joyce looks uncertain, turns to look at hank.
hank: it's your mind, just playing tricks on you.
joyce: you're our little girl, buffy. our one and only. we've missed you so much. mom and dad just want to take you home and take care of you.
scene direction: joyce puts out her hand and caresses buffy's cheek. buffy looks anguished, reaches out with her own hand.
scene direction: flash back to the bedroom. dawn stares in dismay as buffy puts out her hand and touches dawn's cheek.
scene direction: buffy is startled, pulls back her hand quickly, frowning. she squeezes her eyes shut.
scene direction: dawn tearful
dawn: i'm not even there, am i?
buffy: what?
dawn: you said it a second ago. you don't have a sister.
scene direction: dawn stands up. buffy looks upset.
dawn: it's your ideal reality, and i'm not even a part of it.
buffy: dawn, i ... i didn't mean-
dawn: i have to go finish my chores.
scene direction: dawn exits, leaving buffy looking very upset.
scene change: cut to the basement. spike and xander struggling with the demon. it is conscious again, growling and fighting as they drag it toward a pillar in the middle of the basement. the demon is wrapped in chains. in background we see willow.
xander: hold it. hold it!
scene direction: close shot on willow putting on a pair of thick yellow rubber gloves.
willow: i'll need its arm.
scene direction: the demon breaks away from spike and falls to the floor, on top of xander. looks like spike maybe pushed the demon onto xander, but hard to tell for sure.
xander: yeah, i'd like both my arms too.
scene direction: spike hauls the demon back up and shoves it against the pillar.
scene direction: xander getting up
xander: thanks, spike. i'll help when the ... blistering pain subsides.
scene direction: close on xander's legs as a foot kicks xander in the shin. can't tell whether it was the demon or spike. xander yells in pain and goes down again, immediately gets back up again.
willow: ready?
scene direction: willow comes forward holding a glass jar and a tool of some sort. xander and spike hold the struggling demon back against the pillar.
scene direction: willow stabs the demon in the arm with a two-pronged fork, causing its spine to come out from its hand. she grabs the spine and breaks it off.
scene direction: willow putting the spine in her jar
willow: xander, go to the magic shop.
scene direction: xander and willow walk off.
willow: i'll need alkanet root and a handful of nettle leaf. just for the medicinal properties. no magic.
scene direction: shot of spike working on chaining the demon to the pillar. willow and xander start up the stairs.
willow: when you've got them, meet me at the campus lab. i'll see if i can brew up an antidote the old-fashioned way.
spike: i'll hold here, keep an eye on the wax job.
xander: make sure that's all you're ogling.
willow: xander!
scene direction: willow pulls xander away up the stairs.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the house, day.
scene direction: willow os
willow: buffy? wake up.
scene change: cut to the bedroom. willow walks in holding a mug. she wears the same clothes as in the previous scene.
willow: got yummy antidote goodness for you.
scene direction: we see that buffy is also still wearing the same clothing as the night before.
buffy: what happened?
scene direction: willow gives her the mug
willow: it took a little longer than i'd hoped. no magic and all. went boom twice, but then i got it. just ... when it's cool, drink it all down, and ... everything should go back to normal.
buffy: you never stop coming through. thank you, willow.
scene direction: willow smiles.
scene direction: spike appears in the doorway, looking uncertain.
spike: how is she?
scene direction: willow goes to the door
willow: make sure she drinks all that. i'm gonna let dawn know that everything's gonna be okay.
scene direction: willow smiles at buffy and leaves. spike continues standing in the doorway.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: you all right?
scene direction: buffy grimaces, not looking at him
buffy: you need to leave me alone. you're not part of my life.
scene direction: spike annoyed
spike: fine, then.
scene direction: spike turns to leave, then turns back, even more annoyed.
spike: you know, but i hope you don't think this an-
scene direction: he starts to come forward into the room, gesturing angrily, but walks into a beam of sunlight and stops, moves back with a frustrated expression.
scene direction: spike slightly calmer
spike: i hope you don't think this antidote's gonna rid you of that nasty martyrdom.
scene direction: spike buffy still not looking at him
spike: see, i figured it out, luv. you can't help yourself. you're not drawn to the dark like i thought.
scene direction: buffy looks up at him now, still frowning.
spike: you're addicted to the misery. it's why you won't tell your pals about us. might actually have to be happy if you did. they'd either understand and help you, god forbid ... or drive you out ... where you can finally be at peace, in the dark. with me. either way, you'd be better off for it, but you're too twisted for that.
scene direction: spike pauses
spike: let yourself live, already. and stop with the bloody hero trip for a sec. we'd all be the better for it.
scene direction: buffy frowns even more, looks up at spike again.
spike: you either tell your friends about us ... or i will.
scene direction: he turns and leaves. buffy makes an anguished face, holds the mug up. pauses. brings the mug up to her lips, pauses again. stares off in front of her, pondering.
scene direction: slowly, she turns and holds out the mug. tips it over and lets the contents pour out into the trash basket. close shot on her face as she stares ahead.
doctor voiceover: buffy.
scene direction: flash back to the asylum.
scene direction: buffy tearful
buffy: i don't wanna go back there.
scene direction: we see crazybuffy sitting on the bed, the doctor standing on one side of the bed while joyce and hank stand on the other side.
buffy: i wanna be healthy again.
scene direction: buffy joyce smiling hopefully. buffy turns to the doctor
buffy: what do i have to do?
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: same scene.
scene direction: buffy anxious
buffy: oh ... please, help me.
scene direction: buffy to joyce
buffy: i-i wanna go home, with you and dad.
joyce: i know, buffy. but first you've gotta get better.
doctor: it's not gonna be easy, buffy. you have to take it one step at a time. you have to start ridding your mind of those things that support your hallucinations.
scene direction: doctor buffy looking up at him
doctor: you understand? there are things in that world that you cling to. for your delusion, they're safe-holds, but for your mind they're traps. we have to break those down.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: slaying?
doctor: yes ... but i'm talking about those things you want there. what keeps you going back.
buffy: my friends.
doctor: that's right. last summer, when you had a momentary awakening, it was them that pulled you back in.
joyce: they're not really your friends, buffy. they're just ... tricks keeping you from getting healthy.
doctor: you have to do whatever it takes to convince yourself of that, buffy. whatever it takes.
scene direction: buffy stares off in front of her.
scene direction: flash back to the house. buffy enters the living room and bumps into willow.
scene direction: willow startled, nervous
willow: oh, buffy, i, i didn't see you. i was just coming to check on you. you feeling better? did the antidote work?
buffy: i'm ... still pretty dazed, but, uh, better.
willow: no more cuckoo's nest?
scene direction: willow buffy shakes her head
willow: well, we still have the big bad all tranked out down in the basement. in case it didn't work and we need more parts.
scene direction: beat. buffy looks blank. willow looks hopeful.
willow: it'll be nice to see you all better.
scene direction: buffy small smile
buffy: thanks.
willow: i can make you some food, something big with energy, help you clear your noggin. come on.
scene direction: willow takes buffy's hand and they walk toward the kitchen.
scene change: fade to the front door (shot from inside the foyer). a knock on the door. xander opens it, pokes his head in.
scene direction: xander calls
xander: hello! i'm back! clean and with the better smell now.
scene direction: xander comes inside, closes the door
xander: friends? romans?
scene direction: long shot down the hall at xander standing there, throwing up his hands.
xander: anyone?
scene direction: he starts walking down the hall toward the camera.
scene direction: he glances into the kitchen, pauses.
xander: hey.
scene direction: reveal buffy standing by the kitchen sink, holding a frying pan. definite horror-movie vibe here. there's no background music. buffy looks up at xander as he walks in.
xander: hey, there, sane girl.
scene direction: xander taking off his jacket
xander: so did willow get that antidote to you all right?
scene direction: buffy curtly
buffy: yeah. i'm better now.
xander: great. so, it's settled.
scene direction: xander puts down his jacket
xander: we're, uh, we're real, right? guess we should finish off that demon and drag it out of the basement. and tell me you're up for that.
scene direction: xander shakes his head
xander: i so don't wanna see spike right now.
scene direction: xander walking closer to buffy
xander: i mean, talk about losing touch. hate to say it, but i almost...
scene direction: xander frowns
xander: feel sorry for the guy. almost. the things the poor guy was saying ... i mean, i get it, you know. been a part of the buffy obsess-
scene direction: suddenly buffy hits him in the face with the frying pan. he reels back. fast horror-movie music begins. buffy drops the pan, grabs xander and throws him against the kitchen island, her hands on his neck.
scene direction: xander strained
xander: b-buffy-
scene direction: she pulls him up again and hits him a couple of times. he goes down.
scene direction: fast-cut to buffy dragging the half-conscious xander down the basement stairs. she throws him to the floor.
scene direction: xander lifts his head a little and opens his eyes. the creepy music slows down. reveal willow on the floor not far from him, her hands tied behind her back and a piece of duct tape over her mouth. she stares at xander in dismay.
scene direction: xander groggy
xander: willow, what...
scene direction: he falls unconscious. willow stares past him.
scene direction: pan across their two bodies lying on the floor to reveal buffy standing over them, staring down at them. she turns her gaze toward the stairs.
scene direction: shot of the demon still chained to the post in the middle of the basement, struggling and growling.
scene direction: buffy looks at the demon, back at her friends, then up the stairs. slow creepy music continues.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. the faster scary music resumes. buffy emerges from the basement, frowning slightly. she shuts the door and locks it.
scene direction: slowly, she turns and walks down the hall. she pauses to grimace for a moment, continues. reaches the bottom of the stairs, turns and looks up them.
scene direction: buffy calls
buffy: dawn?
scene direction: she starts up the stairs.
scene change: cut to upstairs hallway. buffy emerges from the stairs, pauses, takes a deep breath, walks forward and pushes open the door to dawn's room. walks in.
scene direction: we see dawn with a canvas bag on the bed, putting stuff into it. she turns with a gasp to look at buffy. her cheeks are tear-stained.
dawn: don't you knock?
scene direction: dawn resumes packing
buffy: i called for you.
scene direction: dawn looks at her again
dawn: buffy, are you okay?
buffy: where are you going?
scene direction: dawn resumes packing
dawn: i'm going over to janice's, where they actually like having me around.
buffy: you're not going anywhere.
scene direction: dawn scoffs
dawn: why not? you want me gone anyway. what do you care?
buffy: i care. you're going downstairs with the others. it's the only way i can get healthy.
scene direction: buffy walks toward dawn
scene direction: dawn alarmed
dawn: what are you talking about?
scene direction: buffy comes up to dawn and stares at her.
scene direction: dawn worried
dawn: buffy, you look sick.
scene direction: dawn buffy just staring at her
dawn: what are you doing? what's wrong with you?
scene direction: suddenly buffy tries to grab dawn. dawn breaks free and runs out.
dawn: stay away from me!
scene direction: dawn goes running down the hallway.
scene direction: dawn screams
dawn: willow, help!
scene direction: dawn runs into willow's room(?) and closes the door, leans against it.
dawn: buffy, please!
scene direction: buffy walks slowly down the hall toward the room.
buffy: you can't hide, dawn.
dawn: talk to me. you're hallucinating.
scene direction: buffy leans against the door
buffy: i know. you're just a trap for my mind.
dawn: buffy, please, listen to me. that asylum and those people, they're not real!
scene direction: buffy frowns, moves back and kicks the door open. takes a few steps inside, looks around. no sign of dawn.
scene direction: buffy goes back out and finds dawn emerging from another door. dawn gasps in surprise. buffy stares at her.
dawn: buffy ... look at me.
scene direction: dawn buffy blinking slowly
dawn: i'm right here. you're my sister.
scene direction: dawn getting tearful
dawn: i need you and love you. somewhere inside you must know that's real.
scene direction: buffy sarcastic
buffy: sure it is. 'cause what's more real?
scene direction: buffy starts walking toward dawn
buffy: a sick girl in an institution...
dawn: don't. please. listen to me.
buffy: or some kind of supergirl ... chosen to ... fight demons and...
scene direction: buffy dawn looking around anxiously
buffy: save the world.
scene direction: buffy pauses, looks to one side, smiles a little
buffy: that's ridiculous.
scene direction: she does her little grimace thing again and looks at dawn.
scene direction: dawn quickly grabs the door and slams it in buffy's face. buffy kicks it open again. dawn screams and jumps back.
scene direction: buffy advancing into the room as dawn backs away
buffy: a girl who sleeps with the vampire she hates?! yeah, that makes sense.
scene direction: dawn tries to run around the bed but buffy rolls across it and winds up in front of dawn. she grabs dawn by the arms and shoves her up against a dresser, then onto the floor. dawn struggles as buffy straddles her and pins her down.
dawn: no! buffy, stop! i'm real!
scene change: cut to the basement.
dawn: buffy, stop it. i'll be good!
scene direction: buffy throws dawn to the floor. we see that dawn's arms are tied behind her back.
dawn: i promise. you're not thinking. i'll-
scene direction: buffy kneels down and puts a piece of duct tape over dawn's mouth. dawn squeals and whines behind the gag.
scene direction: pan out to reveal willow lying beside dawn (both of them bound hand and foot, and gagged with duct tape). xander is a few feet away, still unconscious, with his hands tied around a pillar but his feet and mouth free.
scene direction: buffy looks at them, looks at the demon, grimaces.
doctor voiceover: it's okay, buffy. don't stress yourself.
scene direction: flash to the asylum. joyce and the doctor are close in foreground (buffy pov) with hank hovering in the background.
joyce: honey, take your time.
doctor: make it as easy on yourself as possible. there's nothing wrong with that.
scene direction: crazybuffy nods, looks determined.
scene direction: cut back to the basement. xander begins to come around. buffy sees this, walks slowly toward him.
xander: buffy ... what are you doing?
scene direction: she walks past him and over to the demon, walks around behind it.
scene direction: close shot on the chains as buffy reaches over and undoes them. the demon shakes itself, making the chains fall to the floor.
xander: oh my god.
scene direction: the demon begins to advance, growling. buffy stands watching.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: same scene. buffy is panting, looks a little anxious as she watches. the demon is still advancing. xander is trying to get to his feet, sliding his bound hands up the pillar. sound of willow and dawn whimpering.
xander: buffy, help me! i need my hands!
scene direction: xander kicks at the demon.
scene direction: buffy looks anxious, backs up into the space underneath the stairs.
scene change: cut to the foyer. horror-movie music continues. tara enters through the front door.
scene direction: tara calls
tara: hello?
scene direction: she comes inside, closes the door.
scene direction: tara calls
tara: anybody home?
scene direction: cut back to the basement. buffy presses herself fearfully back into the alcove under the stairs as xander continues fending off the demon with kicks.
scene direction: the demon grabs xander's shoulder and pulls, hard enough to break the ropes binding him. it throws xander across the room. he slams into a refrigerator and falls down.
scene direction: close on buffy watching with increasing anxiety.
joyce voiceover: buffy?
scene change: cut to the institution, close shot on joyce's face, blurry and unfocused.
scene direction: crazybuffy jumps off the bed, whimpering. runs over to the corner and presses herself into it, twitching and whimpering. joyce looks concerned, walks toward her.
joyce: i-it's gonna be okay, sweetheart. whatever it is, it's not real, remember?
scene direction: joyce moving forward slowly
joyce: just keep concentrating. i'm right here, sweetie.
scene direction: crazybuffy slides slowly down the wall toward a sitting position.
scene direction: cut back to the basement. buffy is similarly sliding down the wall.
scene direction: xander os
xander: buffy, help me!
scene direction: shot of xander struggling to get up again.
xander: buffy, help!
scene direction: the demon hits him hard on the back.
scene direction: tara os
tara: willow?
scene direction: buffy looks up in surprise. tara comes partway down the stairs, peers down. shot of willow trying to call to tara through her gag.
scene direction: tara pointing
tara: eximete!
scene direction: the bonds on willow and dawn dissolve in a flash of magic. they sit up.
tara: vis zenobia! s-solvere!
scene direction: a large metal shelving unit covered with paint cans suddenly flies across the room and slams into the demon.
scene direction: close on tara's feet as she descends the stairs. buffy reaches between the steps and grabs tara's ankle, tripping her. tara falls down the stairs.
willow: no! tara!
scene direction: buffy looks shocked. willow rushes over to tara. buffy retreats back into her alcove.
scene change: cut to the asylum. crazybuffy is sitting pressed into the corner, agitated.
buffy: i don't know...
scene direction: joyce kneeling next to her
joyce: buffy, look at me.
buffy: i don't know. i don't know.
joyce: i believe in you.
scene direction: joyce buffy looking at her, whimpering
joyce: you're a survivor, you can do this.
scene direction: crazybuffy looks conflicted.
scene direction: cut back to the basement. buffy grimaces again, looks up.
scene direction: xander jumps up and attacks the demon, which is attacking dawn. dawn screams. xander jumps on the demon from behind. it grabs him and throws him down.
buffy: xander. no.
scene direction: she looks away, grimaces, looks back.
scene direction: the demon is again struggling with dawn. it throws her across the room, still screaming, as willow picks up a metal baseball bat. willow starts hitting the demon with the bat, then it grabs the bat and shoves her down.
scene direction: buffy looks anguished, starts to call willow's name...
buffy: willow!
scene change: cut to the asylum in mid-word. crazybuffy is very agitated, banging her head against the wall.
joyce: buffy? buffy! buffy, fight it. you're too good to give in, you can beat this thing. be strong, baby, ok?
scene direction: joyce buffy crying
joyce: i know you're afraid. i know the world feels like a hard place sometimes, but you've got people who love you.
scene direction: joyce tearful
joyce: your dad and i, we have all the faith in the world in you. we'll always be with you.
scene direction: crazybuffy calms down as these words start to sink in.
joyce: you've got ... a world of strength in your heart. i know you do. you just have to find it again.
scene direction: joyce whispering
joyce: believe in yourself.
scene direction: joyce strokes her hair. crazybuffy sniffles, looks determined. slowly she turns her head to look joyce in the eye.
buffy: you're right.
scene direction: buffy sad smile
buffy: thank you.
scene direction: joyce smiles.
scene direction: buffy tearful
buffy: good-bye.
scene direction: joyce looks surprised, then horrified. crazybuffy looks away.
scene direction: joyce anguished
joyce: buffy.
scene direction: cut back to the basement. sounds of screaming and punching continue as buffy slowly stands up, wearing her determined expression.
scene direction: she walks forward, kicks the demon in the chest, hits it, shoves it against the wall. punches it, throws it into the washer/dryer, walks over to it and punches it so hard her hand goes into its chest.
scene direction: the demon falls down, dead. buffy stands there with her hand covered in its slimy gray blood. zoom in on her determined face.
scene direction: slowly, she turns around.
scene direction: we see dawn huddled by the refrigerator, xander picking himself up, willow and tara helping each other up. they all stare at buffy.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: i'm so sorry.
willow: buffy? we're okay. it's all okay.
scene direction: willow buffy stumbling(?
willow:  buffy, sit down. you'll fall over.
buffy: no ... i can't. not until i have the antidote.
willow: okay. we-we'll make more, we'll take care of it.
scene direction: close on buffy's face.
scene direction: willow os
willow: everything's gonna be okay, buffy.
scene direction: flash to the institution. the doctor shining a flashlight at the camera (buffy pov). he clicks the flashlight off, then on again.
scene direction: we see crazybuffy sitting there catatonic, unresponsive as the doctor shines the light in her eyes. the doctor makes an upset face, turns to speak over his shoulder.
doctor: i'm sorry, there's no reaction at all.
scene direction: close on crazybuffy leaning in the corner of the room.
scene direction: doctor os
doctor: i'm afraid we lost her.
scene direction: camera pulls out slowly to reveal the doctor sitting on a chair, and behind him, buffy's parents. joyce is sobbing. hank puts his arm around her and she hugs him. continue pulling out to reveal the shackled bed. camera moves back through the closed door with its tiny window.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon.