scene direction: open in willow's bedroom, daylight. overhead shot of the room, various items of clothing strewn across the floor. pan across the floor. sound of giggling.
scene direction: pan further to reveal willow and tara snuggling together on the bed, under red sheets.
willow: when did morning happen?
tara: after the moon went down.
scene direction: willow giggles, leans up and they kiss for a while. then willow lies back down with her head on tara's stomach. tara caresses her shoulders.
willow: mmm, i forgot how good this could feel. us. together.
scene direction: willow pause
willow: without the magic.
tara: there was plenty of magic.
scene direction: willow smiles, then sighs.
willow: it's getting late.
scene direction: tara small frown
tara: wanna get up?
willow: no!
scene direction: willow tara laughing
willow: oh god, no.
scene direction: willow quietly
willow: i was just thinking about buffy.
scene direction: tara frowns
tara: oh. she still isn't back?
willow: i didn't hear her. she wouldn't talk about what happened at the magic shop when she got home last night. she just wanted to know how close i was to tracing the camera signal back to the empire of the nerds. and then she left again.
tara: i'm sure she'll be okay.
willow: yeah, i'm not really worried about her going up against warren and the others. i know this is going to sound crazy, but ... i think something might be going on. with spike and buffy.
scene direction: willow pause
willow: i mean, she looked so hurt when she saw him with anya. i think maybe-
tara: they've been sleeping together.
scene direction: willow laughs
willow: no. i wouldn't go that far.
tara: no, i mean she told me they've been sleeping together.
scene direction: willow sits up to stare at tara.
willow: sleeping together? you mean like the naked kind of together?
scene direction: tara sighs
tara: i'm sorry i didn't say anything, but i, i promised her i wouldn't.
scene direction: willow shocked
willow: does everybody else know? am i the only one she didn't-
tara: god, no. she, she didn't even mean to tell me, it just came out.
scene direction: willow still shocked
willow: how could she hide something like this from me?
tara: i think she was afraid of the look you'd get on your face.
scene direction: tara willow staring at her
tara: kinda like the one you're wearing now.
willow: oh, no, i'm not ... i'm just trying to understand.
tara: so is she.
willow: wow, she probably really needs someone to talk to.
tara: probably.
scene direction: willow continues absorbing the news as tara strokes her hair.
tara: we've been kinda busy, maybe we didn't hear her come home.
scene direction: willow nods uncertainly.
scene change: cut to the hallway. willow, wearing a large football shirt, knocks on a closed door.
willow: buffy?
scene direction: she opens the door, revealing the neatly made, not-slept-in bed.
scene direction: willow frowns, closes the door and starts back toward her room.
scene direction: shot of another closed door, starting to open.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: she back yet?
scene direction: willow stops, turns back. dawn appears in the doorway.
scene direction: willow nervously
willow: uh, not yet. i'm sure she'll be home soon. everything's fine, just go back to bed.
dawn: it's ten o'clock.
scene direction: willow surprised
willow: oh. uh...
scene direction: dawn comes closer
dawn: you don't think she's ... gonna hurt spike, do you?
willow: she told you about spike?
dawn: it was kinda obvious after last night.
scene direction: willow covering
willow: yeah, i totally knew.
dawn: it must have hurt so much. to see him and, and, and anya like that? and poor xander. everything is so screwed up.
willow: it's gonna be all right. it's just ... complicated. you know, when, when people have such strong feelings for each other, sometimes-
tara: is she back yet?
scene direction: tara emerges from the bedroom with the sheet wrapped around her. dawn's face lights up. tara sees dawn and looks mildly alarmed/embarrassed.
tara: oh. hey.
scene direction: dawn starting to smile, delighted
dawn: oh! you and-
scene direction: tara smiling
tara: uh, that's my cue to put some clothes on.
scene direction: tara turning back toward the bedroom
dawn: no! no no no! i'm totally not here! you guys, you do whatever you want. um ... i'll go watch tv.
scene direction: dawn giggles
dawn: downstairs, really loud! in the basement. where i can't hear anything.
scene direction: dawn squeals
dawn: oh my god!
scene direction: dawn rushes off giggling excitedly. tara and willow grin at each other, head back toward the bedroom. dawn reappears almost immediately.
dawn: i love you guys!
scene direction: she squeals some more and dashes off again. willow and tara smile and continue on.
scene change: cut to some door somewhere. it explodes inward (toward the camera) and buffy appears in the doorway, wearing a red leather jacket.
scene direction: buffy calls
buffy: all right. let's make this quick.
scene direction: reveal the interior of the geek trio's lair, still decorated in cheesy love-pad fashion, but empty of people.
scene direction: buffy looks quite displeased. she walks down the stairs into the lair, looks around.
buffy: fine. but i'm not leaving till we have a little chat.
scene direction: she wanders over to a desk. there's an imac and a bunch of papers on it. buffy frowns, picks up some of the papers, looks around more. pan over a variety of geek-type knick-knacks and such.
buffy: very little, considering the pummeling that needs to occur.
scene direction: she looks at a shelf where a bunch of action figures are set up -- mostly of women in extremely skimpy outfits. buffy pokes one of them, makes a face, turns away.
buffy: i mean, guys, helloooo. slayer here. did you honestly think i wouldn't find you...
scene direction: she gets distracted by more piles of paper and stuff on a chair. she sifts through them, picks some up. frowns, continues walking.
scene direction: she discovers the white-board on which the nerd herd had written their evil plans. buffy turns it on its squeaky axle to reveal the surface. all it says now is too late!
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: well, that can't be good.
scene direction: suddenly a huge circular buzz-saw cuts through the white-board and comes slicing toward buffy, cutting through everything in its path. sawdust and debris flying everywhere. buffy shields her face with her hands, dives to the floor just in time to avoid being sliced in two.
scene direction: several more saws appear, at all angles, moving around the room, some horizontally, some vertically, some on a diagonal. buffy does a flip to duck under one and over another. she grabs a pile of random papers and stuff, and runs for the door. one saw gets caught in the stairwell just below her feet.
scene change: cut to outside. buffy bursts out of the house and falls onto the grass, papers flying everywhere. she groans and sits up. we see that she's holding a large, old book.
scene direction: she looks down at herself. close shot on her stomach. her red leather jacket has a big gash in it, just deep enough to cut the fabric but not her flesh.
scene direction: buffy annoyed
buffy: okay. that's gonna cost ya.
scene direction: wolf howl, opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on exterior shot of the summers house, day.
scene change: cut to inside. willow and tara come down the stairs, dressed, arms around each other, smiling. they go into the living room.
willow: okay, we're here, ready for action! uh, bad guy fighting action.
scene direction: willow giggles
scene direction: reveal buffy sitting on the sofa holding some papers, and dawn on the floor beside her, eating something.
scene direction: willow and tara exchange affectionate looks.
buffy: guys, you didn't have to ... you know, if you still wanna be alone-
willow: no. no, we're good.
scene direction: willow still with the amorous looks
tara: we're better than good.
scene direction: buffy and dawn smiling too.
buffy: great.
scene direction: willow softly
willow: super.
scene direction: willow and tara kiss briefly, then begin kissing more intensely. buffy and dawn watch with "aw" faces. dawn giggles.
buffy: awww.
willow: okay, all right, we'll stop.
dawn: oh, you better not!
tara: so, um, nerds. how are them? they?
buffy: well, i found their lair, but they obviously knew we were tracing their signal. they left in a hurry. van was gone, but everything else was still there.
willow: we should go back, uh, tara and i can sherlock around-
buffy: there's nothing left there now. giant buzz saw. it was a thing.
scene direction: buffy indicating papers
buffy: this was all that i could save. i, i know it's not much, but we need to go through it and see if we can find anything that might tell us what, what they're doing, where they're going...
scene direction: willow and tara kneel on the floor. we see that the coffee table is covered with the rest of the papers and stuff that buffy salvaged from the nerds' lair.
scene direction: tara picks up a large book. it has a buzz-saw cut right across the middle, and it falls in half as she picks it up.
tara: um,
scene direction: tara chuckling
tara: this might take a while.
buffy: anything we can do to fast forward? we really need to find warren and the others before anyone else gets hurt.
willow: should we call xander?
scene direction: buffy grimaces
buffy: i don't think he's really in the scooby space. we need to give him some time.
dawn: maybe they've heard something in the demon bars about those guys.
scene direction: dawn tentatively, looking at buffy
dawn: spike-
scene direction: buffy quickly
buffy: spike ... spike's not part of the team.
scene direction: dawn softly
dawn: so he's not ... going to be around anymore?
scene direction: dawn willow and tara looking concerned
buffy: uh ... i don't know, dawn. not, not for a while.
scene direction: dawn ponders this.
tara: what about anya? she might be able to help with some of the demon texts.
buffy: i'm guessing she's not feeling real researchy right now.
scene direction: sound of sniffling, crying.
scene change: cut to a restaurant, day. a blonde woman sits at the bar with a martini glass in front of her. she's crying and has her head down so we can't see her face, but her hair and build and clothing resemble anya's. but as the camera pulls out we see that anya is actually sitting next to the crying woman.
anya: i know how you feel. maybe i can help.
crying woman: how could carl do that to me? that bastard!
anya: he's a man. look no further.
crying woman: but with my sister? she's not even pretty.
scene direction: anya taken aback
anya: well ... it isn't always about looks.
scene direction: anya crying woman looking skeptical
anya: or a beating heart. sometimes intimate sweaty relations with the wrong person just seems like a good idea at the time.
scene direction: crying woman angrily
crying woman: she's fat! he cheated on me with my fat ugly sister!
scene direction: crying woman continues crying
anya: likes 'em fleshy, huh? bet you wish he'd bloat up a coupla thousand pounds and pop like a big ol' meat zeppelin, don't you?
crying woman: he said he loved me.
anya: oh, gee, then he must have meant it, 'cause hey, guys never say anything they don't really mean, do they?
crying woman: but we-
anya: they say, "i love you," and, and you think it's true.
scene direction: anya crying woman staring at her
anya: they say, "oh, anya, i want to be with you for the rest of my life," and, and you believe them, you believe they feel the same way about you, because that's the way love's supposed to be, right?
crying woman: who's anya?
anya: and then you get all excited with the tingly anticipation, but wait! not so fast! there's the apocalypse, a-and the back from the grave, and the blah blah blah blah blah, and by the time you're finally standing there in that beautiful expensive white dress you've dreamed about ever since you became human, he's gets all heebie-jeebie and decides, "you know, i'd rather just go steady."
scene direction: beat. the other woman has stopped crying. now she just looks bitter.
crying woman: men suck. i wish carl's flesh would-
anya: and you know, he said it isn't me, but how can i believe him? i mean ... he knew he didn't want to get married! deep down he knew, but he lied to me every day for months!
crying woman: i wish-
anya: he lied and lied and then lied some more, 'cause hey , who's gonna notice with all the other lies flying around like little monkeys? and then he thinks he can just sweep the carnage underneath the rug by saying , "oh-"
scene change: cut to some sort of underground cavern. a looming shapeless shadow moves across the wall.
voice: i'm sorry. sorry.
scene direction: pan down and reveal andrew, sitting on the floor and scooting backwards on his butt as the looming creature pursues him down the tunnel.
andrew: sorry, please! i'll never try to desecrate your chamber again!
scene direction: we finally get a look at the thing chasing him. it's a huge brown scaly demon with thorny things protruding from its chin, a sort of triangular head, teeth like needles.
andrew: just don't hurt me! please!
scene direction: andrew has backed into a corner. the demon continues advancing.
scene direction: then we see warren and jonathan behind the demon. warren zaps it with a cattle prod/taser. blue electricity sparkles around the demon and it growls in pain.
jonathan: hit him again! hit him again!
scene direction: warren continues zapping the demon until it falls over.
warren: wow. these things are tougher than i thought.
scene direction: warren as andrew gets up and joins them
warren: you know, one jolt from this should have dropped an elephant .
scene direction: andrew grabs the prod from warren.
andrew: you want a piece of this? huh?
scene direction: andrew zapping the demon repeatedly
andrew: not so tough, are you now, puff 'n stuff?!
warren: hey, hey! we need him fresh, all right, not smoke house.
scene direction: andrew stops zapping
andrew: i'm done being the bait. next time one of you can wiggle on the hook.
scene direction: warren goes over to the demon and squats down to look at it.
warren: if this works ... then next time we'll be the thing that everyone's afraid of.
jonathan: okay, so ... what now?
scene direction: warren has a switchblade knife in his hand. he flicks open the blade.
warren: well, now it's your turn, sparky.
scene direction: warren reverses the knife so he's holding it by the blade, then tosses it to jonathan, who catches it. he looks at it uncertainly, then makes a disgusted face.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt, night. spike holds a glass of blood in one hand and a bottle of liquor in the other. he pours liquor into the blood, puts the bottle down, takes a slow sip.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: does it help?
scene direction: spike looks over his shoulder. behind him, dawn is standing in the doorway with a white bag over her shoulder. spike looks back at his glass.
spike: doesn't hurt.
scene direction: he looks over at dawn again. she fidgets a little.
spike: not planning a camp-out, are we?
dawn: no. i'm sleeping over at janice's. figured willow and tara might want some time to, uh...
scene direction: spike smiles slightly, staring into his glass
spike: oh, so the birds are flying again, eh?
scene direction: spike bitterly
spike: ain't love grand.
scene direction: he turns to sit in his armchair, not looking at dawn.
dawn: i wanted to stop by on my way and, you know.
scene direction: dawn beat
dawn: everybody's pretty mad at you.
spike: yeah. kinda picked up on that.
scene direction: dawn softly
dawn: you're not going to be coming aroundanymore. are you?
scene direction: spike staring into the distance
spike: it's complicated, nibblet.
scene direction: dawn small laugh
dawn: everybody's been saying that.
spike: must be true then.
scene direction: spike drinking
dawn: was it worth it? what you did with anya?
scene direction: spike looks over at her in surprise.
spike: buffy told you?
scene direction: dawn shrugs
dawn: kinda caught the show. there was a camera somewhere in the magic box.
scene direction: dawn spike looking shocked
dawn: warren and jonathan and that other guy have been watching buffy.
scene direction: spike sighing angrily
spike: wankers!
scene direction: dawn walks down the steps and a few feet into the room.
scene direction: dawn pained
dawn: do you love her?
spike: oh, no. no. it was just a ... it was a bad day. for both of us. and we just had a few drinks and, things just-
dawn: no. not anya. buffy.
scene direction: close on spike staring at his glass.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: do you really love her?
scene direction: spike doesn't answer, just looks pained.
dawn: then how could you do that to her?
scene direction: spike still not looking at her
spike: oh, right , 'cause big sis was treating me so well up until that point.
scene direction: spike dawn sighing in exasperation
spike: must still be a bit of the evil left in me after all.
dawn: i don't know what happened betweenyou two. but what you did last night ... if you wanted to hurt buffy, congratulations.
scene direction: dawn quietly
dawn: it worked.
scene direction: dawn turns to leave. close on spike staring sadly into his drink as the door closes.
scene change: cut to a different part of the underground tunnel. it's lit with candles. across the tunnel at one point there's a shimmery magical barrier.
scene direction: a demon like the one that the nerds stunned earlier comes walking down the tunnel. when it gets to the barrier it simply keeps walking. the barrier flashes with orange light and makes sizzling noises as the demon walks through it.
scene direction: as the demon continues on, warren and andrew emerge from a nook in the tunnel and go over to the barrier.
warren: this is it. we found it.
andrew: you sure it's in there?
scene direction: andrew starts to go over to the barrier but warren stops him.
warren: careful! only nezzla demons can pass through the barrier.
scene direction: warren picks up a rock from the ground and tosses it at the barrier. it sizzles and burns to nothing in an instant.
warren: everything else gets curly-fried.
scene direction: jonathan os
jonathan: this sucks.
scene direction: jonathan comes walking out of the nook. he is wearing the other demon's skin like a suit, covering his whole body. it's much bigger than him so it hangs loosely around him. the head-skin is hanging like a hood so that jonathan's head is free.
warren: just make sure all your skin's covered.
scene direction: jonathan whining
jonathan: why can't i just use a glamor?
andrew: you can't siegfried and roy the barrier. it's gotta be the real deal.
scene direction: warren reaches behind jonathan and pulls the head-hood over jonathan's head. jonathan yells in dismay. the other two laugh.
jonathan: ahh!
scene direction: jonathan muffled, disgusted
jonathan: it's still wet.
scene direction: jonathan the head is also too big and jonathan's eyes barely show through the eye-holes
warren: good. then it should still be fresh enough.
scene direction: jonathan muffled
jonathan: should be? wait a minute, what do you mean, what do you mean, should be?
scene direction: still laughing, warren grabs jonathan and shoves him into the barrier. jonathan screams. the barrier sizzles and flashes, and lets him through. he falls to the ground on the other side.
scene direction: warren chuckling, to andrew
warren: huh. wasn't sure that would work.
scene direction: andrew looks surprised and a little uncertain. on the other side of the barrier, jonathan gets up and composes himself.
scene direction: jonathan muttering, muffled
jonathan: jackass.
scene direction: he shuffles off down the corridor.
andrew: you think he knows?
warren: well, if he did, why would he be here?
andrew: why is he? our mojo's tight, bro. we could've pulled this ourselves.
warren: well, somebody had to guinea pig the meat suit. were, were you gonna volunteer?
scene direction: andrew frowns, then laughs nervously and shakes his head.
andrew: no.
scene direction: andrew looks nervously toward the barrier
andrew: i don't trust the leprechaun.
warren: okay, just stay frosty. this works the way we planned it, by the end of the evening jonathan won't be a problem.
scene direction: as warren is saying this, jonathan reappears, holding something. he walks through the barrier to rejoin the others.
warren: you got it?
scene direction: jonathan muffled
jonathan: yeah, i got it.
scene direction: he gives warren a small wooden box.
andrew: that's it?
scene direction: jonathan muffled
jonathan: it better be.
scene direction: jonathan pulls the hood off his head. his face and hair are covered with demon slime.
jonathan: no way i'm going back through there. thing stings like a mother.
andrew: dude, unholy hair gel.
scene direction: andrew reaching out to touch jonathan's slimy hair
jonathan: get off.
andrew: make me, skin job.
warren: shut up.
scene direction: warren takes out a small electrical device and runs it over the surface of the wooden box. the device has a bunch of little lights that flash randomly. warren puts it back in his pocket and opens the box.
warren: ohh.
scene direction: the box is divided into two equal compartments. each one holds a small glass orb, red with white or gold symbols drawn on it.
warren: gentlemen...
scene direction: warren puts the box on andrew's outstretched hands and removes the orbs, holding one in each hand.
warren: ...the orbs of nezzla'khan.
scene direction: warren gazing at them
warren: strength. invulnerability. the deluxe package.
andrew: they're everything i've ever dreamed of.
jonathan: you know, those things have been down here for like a zillion years. how do we know they still work?
scene direction: suddenly a bright purple light explodes from each orb, surrounding warren. the light begins to pulse rhythmically from each globe and through warren's body. he gasps and his eyes glow purple. he starts to laugh.
warren: ohh, they work.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on the underground tunnel. the geek trio are walking down the tunnel as warren puts the glowing orbs into a small leather bag attached to his belt.
andrew: you don't look any different. i thought they were supposed to make us all huge and veiny. are you sure they're working right?
scene direction: sound of growling. warren looks around as another demon comes around a corner, growling.
warren: let's find out.
scene direction: warren rushes at the demon. it hits him and he flies against a wall, turns back and grabs the demon's arm and kicks it in the back of the legs. the demon falls to its knees. warren wraps his arms around its head and twists, breaking the demon's neck. it falls down dead.
scene direction: the other two stare in amazement.
jonathan: mahatma!
warren: welcome to the show, boys.
andrew: that was so hot!
scene direction: andrew warren nodding
jonathan: lemme try 'em!
scene direction: jonathan runs over and grabs for the bag holding the orbs. warren grabs jonathan's wrist.
warren: watch the paws, little man.
scene direction: warren lets go
jonathan: ow.
scene direction: jonathan cradling his wrist
jonathan: we're supposed to share.
warren: oh, relax. all right, you'll each get a whirl.
scene direction: warren nodding
warren: as soon as i'm done playing with 'em.
scene direction: warren smirks evilly.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of xander's apartment building, day. sound of knocking.
scene change: cut to the hallway outside xander's apartment. buffy stands in front of the door. it opens to reveal xander. he doesn't look thrilled to see buffy.
buffy: hey.
xander: hey.
scene direction: xander turns away, leaving the door open. we see that he has a beer can in his hand. he walks back into the apartment. buffy follows him in, closing the door behind her.
xander: i think there's still a cold one in the fridge.
buffy: thanks, but, uh, i think it's still a little early for me.
scene direction: xander just looks at her, then sits on a sofa. buffy sits on a chair opposite.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: she loves you. you know that. anya was just ... she was hurting. she was ... hurting and, and she did this really stupid thing.
xander: with your boyfriend.
buffy: he's not my boyfriend.
xander: i know why anya ... i understand, i do.
scene direction: xander shaking his head
xander: but you...
scene direction: buffy looks down at her feet.
scene direction: xander still shaking head
xander: all those times i told spike to get lost ... that he didn't have a chance with a girl like you.
scene direction: xander laughs bitterly
buffy: you don't know how hard it's been.
xander: what, lying to me?
scene direction: buffy angrily
buffy: being here. after i was brought back.
scene direction: xander looks chastised. buffy sighs, calms down.
buffy: you have no idea how hard it is just being here.
xander: you could have told me.
buffy: you didn't want to know.
xander: so you went to him instead?
buffy: xander, what i do with my personal life is none of your business.
scene direction: xander softly
xander: it used to be.
scene direction: buffy fidgets like she doesn't know how to answer that.
buffy: it just happened, okay?
scene direction: xander chuckles bitterly
xander: oh, like, uh, "say, you're evil. get on me"?
buffy: you fought side by side with him when i was gone. you let him take care of dawn.
xander: but i never forgot what he really is.
scene direction: xander buffy looking hurt
xander: god, what were you thinking?
scene direction: buffy laughs
buffy: you're asking me that? oh, 'cause your decision making skills have really sparkled lately.
xander: i'm not saying i didn't make any mistakes. but last time i checked, slaughtering half of europe wasn't one of them. he doesn't have a soul, buffy. just some leash they jammed in his head. you think he'd still be all snuggles if that chip ever stopped working? would you still trust him with dawn then?
scene direction: buffy resigned
buffy: it doesn't matter. i'm not seeing him anymore. it's over.
xander: yeah. there's a lot of that going around.
scene direction: xander crumples up the beer can in his hand, tosses it aside, gets up and walks off. close on buffy looking upset as we hear the apartment door opening. the door slams and buffy winces.
scene change: fade to sunnydale street, night. people walking around. sad music. xander walks down the street looking sad.
scene change: fade to magic shop, night. anya wanders around dusting things at random.
scene change: cut to the street. xander still walking.
scene direction: cut back to inside. anya dusting items on a shelf.
scene change: cut to the street. xander walks up to a window and peers in through the blinds.
scene direction: shot of xander's face from inside.
scene direction: shot from xander's point of view, anya dusting inside the shop while xander's face is reflected in the window. anya doesn't notice him.
scene direction: xander walks on.
scene change: cut to willow and tara's bedroom. the floor and bed are strewn with papers. willow lies on the bed on her stomach, working on her computer. tara reclines on the bed propped up by pillows, reading papers. both are covered by blankets (naked underneath?).
willow: it's all a mess.
tara: these things take time. we'll figure it out.
willow: sure. we'll decipher codes, foil evil schemes...
tara: finally get out of bed...
willow: i was with you up until there.
scene direction: willow tara laughing
willow: whoa.
scene direction: tara sitting up
tara: what is it?
willow: uh, one of their data cds. it's filled with encrypted blueprints, schematics...
scene direction: shot of the computer screen with various blueprints flashing by.
tara: to what?
willow: i'm not sure. the designations have been stripped.
tara: maybe we can cross-reference them with the county clerk's office.
scene direction: willow makes a face
willow: would that involve getting up?
scene direction: tara smiling
tara: eventually.
willow: then i'm coming out firmly against it.
scene direction: tara mock-frowning
tara: what about the trio's evil scheme?
scene direction: willow grinning
willow: well, i'm kinda busy working on my own.
scene direction: willow turns away from the computer and toward tara. sound of giggling. tara leans back against her pillows with a smile.
scene change: cut to the bronze. several people are sitting/standing by the bar as the bartender pours drinks. xander is sitting at the end of the bar. the bartender pours into xander's glass.
scene direction: close shot on xander's hand holding the shot glass as the liquor pours. some of it misses the glass and splashes on xander's hand.
scene direction: pan up to the woman next to xander, looking over at him.
woman: you're all wet.
scene direction: she pushes a cocktail napkin toward him.
xander: it's a good thing i'm part fish.
scene direction: xander wiping his hand with the napkin
scene direction: woman smiling
woman: which part?
xander: the part with the hook in it.
woman: careful. someone might reel you in.
xander: yeah, but then there'd be the flopping and the ... gasping, and ... sure, maybe it'd work out, but chances are i'd up and leave you at the helm in your white dress. then find you spawning with another fish who turns out to be spawning my very good friend night and day behind my back.
scene direction: xander woman looking confused
xander: then comes the fighting and again with the flopping and the gasping, 'cause hey , chicken of the sea here's not doing too good with the women these days.
woman: huh?
xander: sorry, i'm just looking to curl up with the quiet alone tonight.
scene direction: wide shot of the two of them. the woman looks disappointed, turns away. xander concentrates on his drink.
scene change: cut to the entrance. the geeks enter, look around. jonathan looks at his watch.
scene direction: jonathan irritated
jonathan: we don't have time for this.
andrew: ease up, twitchy.
scene direction: warren looks around, spots something.
warren: all right.
scene direction: long shot of a tall guy and a pretty girl smiling into each other's eyes, holding hands.
warren: let's make some noise.
scene direction: warren walks forward. the others watch, andrew excited, jonathan nervous.
scene change: cut to close on a vampire face. someone punches him and he grunts.
scene change: cut to wider shot the cemetery. buffy fighting the vamp. he throws a punch which she blocks. then he spins around, blocks her punch, kicks her in the chest. she does a spin-kick that sends him sprawling.
buffy: not bad. how hard you gonna hit when you're blowin' in the wind?
scene direction: she reaches into her back pocket for a stake. the vamp gets up and attacks her again. she stakes him just as he's leaping into the air for a kick. he dusts, but the kick lands anyway. buffy gives a cry and goes flying backward. she flies into a headstone, shattering it and landing on the ground behind it.
scene direction: buffy lies on the ground groaning in pain.
scene direction: buffy pouty
buffy: that was rhetorical.
scene direction: she goes to get up and winces.
buffy: ow.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the summers house, night.
scene change: cut to the bathroom. buffy enters, wearing a grey bathrobe and moving slowly, sighing. she goes over to the tub and starts the water running, leans over to check the temperature, putting one hand on her back as she bends over. she sighs loudly as she straightens up.
scene direction: spike os
spike: you hurt? you're not moving so well.
scene direction: buffy sighs and walks toward the sink.
scene direction: reveal spike standing in the doorway, wearing black shirt and jeans, no jacket.
scene direction: buffy standing by the sink, not looking at him
buffy: get out.
spike: we have to talk.
scene direction: spike closing the door
scene direction: buffy turns to look at him
buffy: i really don't.
spike: well, this isn't just about you...
scene direction: spike pushes the door the rest of the way shut
spike: as much you'd like it to be.
scene direction: overhead shot of the two of them. spike stands by the door and buffy by the sink, with about four feet separating them. buffy crosses her arms over her chest.
buffy: you spoke. i listened. now leave.
scene direction: close on spike. he sighs a little.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: i'm sorry. not that it matters any more, but i needed you to know that.
buffy: why?
spike: because i care about you.
buffy: then you might want to try the not sleeping with my friends.
spike: i didn't go to anya for that. i was looking for a spell.
scene direction: buffy outraged
buffy: you were going to use a spell on me?
scene direction: spike sighs, exasperated
spike: it wasn't for you! i wanted something .
scene direction: spike puts hand on his chest
spike: anything to make these feelings stop.
scene direction: spike angrier
spike: i just wanted it to stop!
scene direction: buffy looks taken aback. spike sighs, calms down.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: you should have let him kill me.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: i couldn't do that.
spike: why?
scene direction: buffy moving back toward the tub
buffy: you know why.
spike: because you love me.
scene direction: buffy bends over the tub, again with one hand on her back.
scene direction: buffy annoyed
buffy: no. i don't.
spike: why do you keep lying to yourself?
scene direction: buffy whirls around to face him again
buffy: how many times-
scene direction: she pauses, composes herself.
scene direction: buffy calmer
buffy: i have feelings for you. i do. but it's not love. i could never trust you enough for it to be love.
scene direction: spike laughing
spike: trust is for old marrieds, buffy.
scene direction: spike buffy rolling her eyes
spike: great love is wild ... and passionate and dangerous. it burns and consumes.
buffy: until there's nothing left. love like that doesn't last.
scene direction: spike pacing
spike: i know you feel like i do. you don't have to hide it anymore.
scene direction: buffy rolling her eyes
buffy: spike, please stop this.
scene direction: spike whispers
spike: let yourself feel it.
scene direction: he moves forward, puts his hands on her waist, pulls her toward him. she resists.
buffy: no...
spike: you love me.
buffy: ow, no, stop it.
scene direction: they struggle, spike trying to kiss and grope buffy, buffy trying to push him away. sound of fabric ripping. spike's hand is inside buffy's robe.
buffy: spike, no - ow - what are you do-
scene direction: she loses her balance and falls backward toward the tub. her hand grabs the shower curtain for balance, but it rips off the shower rod and buffy falls down, hitting her back against the side of the tub.
scene direction: buffy yelling
buffy: ow!
scene direction: she falls to the floor beside the tub, groaning in pain. spike gets on top of her, holding her down. he grabs her face and tries to kiss her as she continues trying to fight him off.
spike: let it go. let yourself love me.
scene direction: he continues saying similar things as buffy continues saying "no" and "stop" and "ow." spike pulls at her clothing.
scene direction: buffy gets onto her stomach and tries to pull herself toward the door, but spike is on top of her, holding her down, pulling her arms away from the door as she continues yelling and protesting.
scene direction: close on spike wearing a determined and wild expression.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the same scene, overhead shot of spike straddling buffy on the bathroom floor. buffy continues struggling.
scene direction: buffy yelling
buffy: no, stop it!
spike: i know you felt it ... when i was inside you...
scene direction: close on his hands trying to open her robe. sound of fabric ripping.
scene direction: buffy breaks partly free and starts crawling toward the door again. spike grabs her ankle and pulls her back toward him, flips her over, pins her hands to the floor.
buffy: no, ow, ow!
scene direction: buffy sobbing
buffy: please, please, spike, please...
spike: you'll feel it again, buffy...
buffy: please don't do this...
spike: i'm gonna make you feel it.
scene direction: he rips the front of her robe open. buffy screams and struggles against him as he tries to get her robe off.
buffy: stop!
scene direction: she gives him one last shove with her slayer-strength and spike goes flying backward, crashing into the sink and the wall. buffy gets to her feet, holding her robe closed with one hand. it's torn so that one of her shoulders is exposed.
scene direction: spike gets up, panting and staring at her.
scene direction: buffy ask me again why i could never love you.
scene direction: spike looks like he's just realizing what he was doing.
spike: buffy, my god, i didn't-
scene direction: buffy angrily
buffy: because i stopped you.
scene direction: buffy quieter
buffy: something i should have done a long time ago.
scene direction: a tear runs down buffy's face. spike stares at her looking horrified.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the house.
scene change: cut to aerial shot of sunnydale, houses lit up in the dark of night.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the bronze.
scene change: cut to inside. andrew and jonathan walk beside the bar. jonathan looks nervous. andrew holds a glass of something involving fruit and a little paper umbrella.
scene direction: jonathan looks around nervously
jonathan: what are we doing here? somebody might recognize us.
scene direction: jonathan spotting something, sighing in exasperation
jonathan: oh, oh, that's just great.
scene direction: shot of warren talking to the woman we saw with another guy before.
scene direction: jonathan we're risking everything so that charles atlas can get a date? he's going to end up getting us thrown into jail. or worse. (urgently) maybe you and i should think about.
andrew: warren's the boss. he's picard, you're deanna troi. get used to the feeling, betazoid.
scene direction: andrew walks off. jonathan stares after him in dismay.
scene change: cut to warren talking with the girl.
warren: ...the clothes, the cars, and the money ... see, it's all just window dressing.
scene direction: he strokes the side of the girl's face. she doesn't look too thrilled with that.
warren: baby, this is what's really important.
scene direction: warren holding her hand
warren: two souls, coming together ...
scene direction: frank os
frank: hey!
scene direction: the girl's boyfriend returns. he gets in warren's face. he is much larger than warren.
frank: she only comes together with me. so get lost, shrimp.
scene direction: frank girlfriend looking amused
warren: frankie? oh my god, is that you? how long has it been?
scene direction: frank stares down at warren in confusion.
scene direction: warren it's warren! remember, warren, gym class, fifth period? (smiling) you and your jock buddies used to give me such a hard time. (frank starting to smile) that thing with the underwear? (laughing) god, i thought i'd never stop crying.
scene direction: frank grinning
frank: that was you?
scene direction: warren big fake grin
warren: yeah, that was me!
scene direction: warren quieter
warren: but hey, no hard feelings. i mean, i know you were just fooling around.
scene direction: warren frank nodding
warren: like i'm gonna be with your girl in about five minutes.
scene direction: frank threateningly
frank: what'd you say?
warren: you heard me, meathead. take a walk.
frank: oh, you're dead, you little-
scene direction: frank grabs warren by the shoulders to shove him away, but can't budge him. frank frowns, tries several times to push warren away, but he can't.
warren: this ain't high school.
scene direction: warren shoves frank in the chest with one hand, and frank flies backward, crashing into some people. the girlfriend looks alarmed.
guy: frankie!
scene direction: another large guy moves toward warren. warren turns to face him. as the guy throws a punch, warren grabs his wrist, immobilizing it, then jerks it to the side, breaking the arm. the guy falls to the floor.
scene direction: warren turns to find the girl, just as she starts running away. warren sighs in annoyance.
scene direction: another guy hits warren in the back with a chair. the chair shatters. the guy stares at the pieces in surprise as warren turns around to face him. warren backhands the guy and he flies across the bar-top and off the other side. andrew watches this casually, sipping his fruity drink.
scene direction: warren let's party.
scene direction: in the background a couple of people go to help the injured guys. warren strolls forward, clasps andrew's arm briefly, walks right past jonathan without even acknowledging him. he goes over to the bar where a bunch of pretty women are sitting, watching him.
warren: oh, don't worry about the tab, now, ladies. it's on daddy tonight.
scene direction: he slams his fist down on the cash register, causing the drawer to open. warren reaches across to take out some money.
scene direction: angle on the door of the men's restroom as xander emerges, pauses when he catches sight of warren.
scene direction: warren turns away from the cash register with a handful of money.
warren: don't worry, babies.
scene direction: warren moves toward the women
warren: daddy's gonna give you some too.
scene direction: xander walking up
xander: see now, i think it's the daddy thing that's throwing her.
scene direction: xander jonathan hiding his face
xander: 'cause incest , not that sexy.
scene direction: xander and warren get in each other's faces as andrew watches and jonathan covers his face with his hand.
jonathan: aw, crap.
xander: so, uh, why don't we leave the ladies to their impending nausea and move the freakshow outside, whaddaya say?
scene direction: warren nodding
warren: okay. but lemme ask you something first.
scene direction: warren quietly
warren: you think maybe you could put in a word for me with that anya chick? 'cause if she's taking it from a vamp ...
scene direction: warren smirking
warren: i think i might have a chance .
scene direction: xander punches warren square in the face. warren barely even moves. xander clutches his hand in pain.
warren: no wonder she's screwing a dead guy. you hit like a girl.
scene direction: xander painfully
xander: well, at least i know how to get one.
scene direction: warren scowls angrily, punches xander. xander flies backward across the room, lands on the floor on his back. people exclaiming, gasping, etc.
scene direction: xander lies on the floor groaning in pain. warren walks quickly toward him, shoving a pool table out of the way as if it were nothing. xander is bleeding from the nose, blood running down his face.
warren: let's see how popular you are without a face.
scene direction: jonathan hurries over andgrabs warren's arm.
jonathan: warren, we have to go.
warren: we go when i'm ready.
scene direction: jonathan very nervous
jonathan: hey, it's your call, but ...
scene direction: jonathan showing warren his watch
jonathan: we're gonna miss that thing you wanted to do tonight
scene direction: jonathan warren sighing, exasperated
jonathan: if we don't leave right now. that's all i'm saying.
scene direction: warren sighs and nods reluctantly. he bends over a little to address xander.
warren: it's your lucky night, shemp.
andrew: we're just gonna leave him there? what if he sics the slayer on us?
warren: bring her on.
scene direction: warren turns and walks off. andrew follows casually. jonathan makes a little apologetic hand-gesture at xander, and follows the others.
scene change: cut to summers house, foyer. the door opens and xander enters, his face still bloody.
scene direction: xander calls
xander: buffy? i found warren.
scene direction: he glances around.
scene change: xander actually, my face kinda found him-
scene direction: he stops as he sees spike's leather jacket hanging on the banister. xander strides over to it, picks it up. his expression is grim as he starts up the stairs.
scene change: cut to the bathroom. xander bursts in holding the jacket.
xander: this what you call not seeing spike anymore-
scene direction: he pauses as he sees buffy. she's sitting on the floor looking very upset.
xander: what did he do?
scene direction: close on buffy's legs. her robe hangs loosely and one thigh is exposed, with a big ugly bruise on the inside of the thigh.
xander: did he hurt you?
scene direction: buffy sighing, shaking her head
buffy: he tried. he didn't...
xander: son of a bitch.
scene direction: xander turns to storm out
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: don't.
scene direction: xander stops in the doorway.
scene direction: buffy tearfully
buffy: please, just ... don't.
scene direction: xander stares at her in concern. a loud door-slamming noise from downstairs makes them both jump.
scene direction: willow rushes in, smiling.
willow: hey, i think we finally have something-
scene direction: she pauses, seeing xander's bloody face and buffy's bruised condition. buffy quickly pulls her robe down to hide the bruise on her leg.
willow: what happened?
buffy: nothing.
scene direction: xander looks down at buffy as she composes herself.
buffy: what'd you find out?
scene change: cut to the dining room, a little later. buffy, now dressed, sits at the table with willow and tara. xander stands nearby holding an ice pack against his face. the table is covered with the papers and books from the geek lair, plus willow's computer.
willow: we were able to decipher pretty much everything except these.
scene direction: willow holds a set of papers with weird symbols on them.
tara: it isn't written in any ancient language we could identify.
scene direction: xander chuckling
xander: it's klingon. they're love poems.
scene direction: xander catching himself, embarrassed
xander: which has nothing to do with the insidious scheme you're about to describe.
buffy: what do you got for me that doesn't rhyme?
tara: um, this.
scene direction: tara holding up a cd-rom
willow: it was filled with encoded blueprints and schematics.
scene direction: willow handing buffy a pile of papers
buffy: to what?
tara: um, banks, armored car routes, corporate vaults ... this is big.
willow: they're looking to score some serious dinero. we don't think they're planning just one job.
xander: spree, anyone?
buffy: i, i can't cover all of these at once.
willow: you don't have to. we think there's one they may hit tonight.
tara: it's time sensitive.
xander: be careful. warren's gone all mighty mouse. emphasis on the might.
buffy: good. then i won't have to hold back.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. the door bursts open and spike rushes in, still without his leather coat.
scene direction: flash to the earlier scene of buffy protesting and struggling.
scene direction: flash back to now. spike closes his eyes and clenches his jaw, looking pained. the sound of buffy crying and begging continues.
scene direction: flash to the bathroom again. buffy struggling and crying.
scene direction: flash back to now. spike strides across the room and picks up a bottle of alcohol and a glass. he pours, puts the bottle down, drinks.
scene direction: flash to the bathroom. spike on top of buffy, pinning her down.
spike: i'm gonna make you feel it.
scene direction: flash to now. the glass shatters in spike's hand. he stares at it, lowers his hand slowly.
scene direction: clem os
clem: uh ... knock knock?
scene direction: reveal clem standing in the doorway holding a paper bucket of fast-food. he waves tentatively.
clem: i was just in the neighborhood so i thought, you know...
scene direction: clem walks into the room. spike stares at the floor sullenly.
clem: ...there's a nightrider marathon on the tv, so, uh...
scene direction: clem holding up bucket
clem: i got hot wings!
scene direction: spike shakily
spike: what have i done?
scene direction: beat. spike frowns, looks bemused.
spike: why *didn't* i do it?
scene direction: spike looks up at the ceiling, sighs
spike: what has she done to me?
clem: she done who?
scene direction: clem spike waves his hand dismissively
clem: ohh. the slayer, huh? gosh.
scene direction: clem shaking head
clem: she break up with you again?
spike: we were never together. not really. she'd never lower herself that far.
clem: she's a sweet girl, spike, but hey. whew. issues.
scene direction: clem spike giving a sarcastic grin
clem: and no wonder, with the whole coming back from the grave and whatnot. hey, i had this cousin, who got resurrected by some kooky shaman...
scene direction: clem chuckles
clem: whoo-boy! was that a mess.
scene direction: spike desperate
spike: why do i feel this way?
scene direction: clem shrugs
clem: love's a funny thing.
spike: is that what this is?
scene direction: spike clem looking uncertain
spike: i can feel it. squirming in my head.
scene direction: spike puts hand to his head
clem: love?
spike: the chip. gnawing bits and chunks.
scene direction: spike puts his fingers against his head as if he's trying to dig his way into his skull.
clem: uhh ... maybe a wet cloth?
spike: you know, everything used to be so clear. slayer. vampire. vampire kills slayer, sucks her dry, picks his teeth with her bones. it's always been that way. i've tasted the life of two slayers. but with buffy...
scene direction: spike grimacing in anguish
spike: it isn't supposed to be this way!
scene direction: he grabs a piece of furniture and shoves it over, with accompanying crashing noises.
scene direction: spike angrily
spike: it's the chip! steel and wires and silicon.
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: it won't let me be a monster.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: and i can't be a man. i'm nothing.
clem: hey. come on now, mr. negative. you never know what's just around the corner. things change.
spike: yeah, they do.
scene direction: spike gives a bitter sarcastic laugh. clem looks at him, kind of helpless.
scene direction: then something occurs to spike. his grin turns nasty.
spike: if you make them.
scene change: cut to an amusement park, shut down for the night. a banner reads "opening weekend!" pan across closed concession stands, to a large stone gate with lettering over the archway reading "wild river adventure."
scene direction: pan further to reveal two men standing beside an armored truck. one man wears a security uniform, the other a dark suit. they check something on a clipboard, and then the security guard puts two bags into the back of the truck. a second guard comes around from the other side of the truck.
guard #1: all right, that's the last one.
scene direction: guard #1 takes the clipboard from the guy in the suit, and signs it. guard #2 is closing the truck.
scene direction: guard #1 quite a haul, huh? (gives back the clipboard)
suit: always the biggest gate of the year.
guard #1: yeah.
suit: don't lose any.
guard #1: yeah.
scene direction: the suit guy takes the clipboard and walks off.
scene change: cut to the front of the truck. guard #2 is at the wheel as guard #1 climbs into the passenger seat and shuts the door.
guard #2: wanna grab a bite after?
scene direction: guard #2 guard #1 nodding
guard #2: i think ruby's is still open.
scene direction: guard #2 puts his foot on the gas pedal, but nothing happens.
scene direction: close on warren at the back of the truck.
scene direction: wider shot of warren lifting one rear corner of the truck off the ground.
scene direction: close shot on the right rear wheel, spinning in the air.
scene direction: cut back to the cab.
guard #2: what the hell?
scene direction: another shot of the spinning wheel.
scene direction: reveal andrew and jonathan, both wearing black turtlenecks with black zipper jackets over them.
scene direction: in the cab, the guards slide toward the side of the truck as warren tilts it further.
guard #1: there's something back there!
scene direction: warren continues lifting.
andrew: man, i can't wait to get my hands on his orbs.
scene direction: warren shoves the truck over onto its side.
scene direction: jonathan sarcastic
jonathan: yeah, i'm sure he'll be giving 'em up any second now.
scene direction: warren rips the rear door off the truck.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: hey.
scene direction: reveal buffy standing on top of the overturned truck.
buffy: is this your bank?
scene direction: warren stares up at her.
buffy: 'cause if not, there's gonna be a fee for that.
scene direction: she starts to leap down at warren. he reacts, puts up his arms and catches her as she falls toward him. he throws her backward over his head. she lands on the ground several yards away, and gets up again.
scene direction: warren striding toward her
warren: i was wondering when super bitch would show up.
buffy: you really got a problem with strong women, don't you?
warren: nothing i can't handle.
scene direction: buffy ducks his first swing, the second catches her in the face. warren blocks her punch, holds her arm and hits her with his other hand. they exchange a few blows and buffy goes down.
scene direction: warren you seem a little off. this a bad day?
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: it's getting better.
scene direction: she lands several strong kicks in a row, grabs warren and flips over him, kicks him from behind. he goes down and immediately rolls back to his feet.
scene direction: buffy grabs the large metal door that warren ripped off the truck, and hits him with it. he stumbles into the stone gate, hard. bits of plaster dust fall on his head.
warren: that all you got?
scene direction: he looks up a moment too late as the stone gate collapses, a pile of stone and rubble falling right on warren's head, engulfing him.
scene direction: andrew screams
andrew: no!
scene direction: jonathan stares in dismay. buffy looks over at the other two geeks.
buffy: there's two ways this can end. and right now? i'm thinking they're both gonna hurt.
scene direction: andrew suddenly starts to smile.
andrew: i think you're right.
scene direction: buffy turns around to see warren emerging from the rubble.
warren: what's the matter baby? you never fight a real man before?
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: same scene. warren lands two strong punches on buffy before she ducks the third and kicks him. he blocks her swing, lands several more punches. buffy grabs his hand and twists around, holding warren's arm behind him and kicking him in the stomach. she ducks another punch and kicks him. he falls against the overturned armored truck.
scene direction: buffy watches as warren pulls himself upright again.
warren: wow. that almost hurt, kitten.
scene direction: buffy kicks him and punches him several times, with little effect. warren grabs her and slams down on her arm. buffy makes an expression of pain. warren kicks her backward, grabs her again.
andrew: kill her! kill her!
scene direction: jonathan stares from the fight to andrew and back, looking alarmed.
scene direction: warren continues beating on buffy. he gets her legs out from under her and she goes down.
warren: you know who i am? huh, slayer?
buffy: you're a murderer.
scene direction: buffy getting up
warren: well, that too, but more to the point-
scene direction: buffy swings at him, he blocks the punch and backhands her.
scene direction: warren i'm the guy that beat you.
scene direction: again she swings, again he blocks and hits her. buffy reels backward, looking shocked.
warren: and it's not the muscles, baby.
scene direction: he kicks her backward.
warren: it's the brains.
buffy: i'll remember that when i knock 'em clean out of your-
scene direction: suddenly jonathan leaps onto buffy from behind, grabbing her around the neck. buffy grunts and stumbles forward, trying to pry him off.
scene direction: warren amused
warren: whoa! sparky, i didn't think you had it in you.
scene direction: close on jonathan and buffy struggling. jonathan mutters into buffy's ear through gritted teeth.
scene direction: jonathan quietly to buffy
jonathan: the orbs! smash his orbs.
scene direction: buffy throws him off. he lands on the ground and rolls away as warren attacks again. buffy blocks a couple of punches, but then warren lands one that sends her falling against a park bench. the bench breaks into pieces. warren strides over as buffy is still lying in the wreckage of the bench.
warren: say good night, bitch.
scene direction: warren pulls his fist back for a final punch. this pulls his jacket back, revealing the pouch on his belt. buffy sees it. before warren can move, she lunges forward, grabs the pouch, and slams it against the ground. blue light flashes, suffusing warren, then leaving him and shooting toward the smashed orbs. warren looks dazed. buffy stands up.
buffy: good night, bitch.
scene direction: she does a serious spin-kick that sends warren flying back and tumbling to the ground near his comrades. he climbs slowly to his feet, looking scared.
scene direction: buffy advancing
buffy: you're nothing but a sad little boy, warren. but it's time you grow up, and pay for what you've done.
scene direction: warren panting
warren: get away from me!
scene direction: he pulls off his jacket, revealing an apparatus strapped to his body, including a pair of silvery tanks on his back.
scene direction: warren i swear to god i'm gonna take you down. you piece of...
scene direction: buffy stares in disbelief as warren pulls a switch and the jet-pack activates, lifting him straight up into the air.
scene direction: buffy sighing, almost whining
buffy: oh, come *on.*
scene direction: shot of warren still shooting up into the sky.
scene direction: shot of the other two nerds. jonathan is watching warren go, shocked. andrew stares calmly at buffy.
andrew: well played, slayer!
scene direction: andrew pulls off his jacket, revealing an identical jet-pack. buffy can't believe it.
scene direction: jonathan whines
jonathan: why didn't i get one of those?!
scene direction: andrew to buffy
andrew: this round to you. but the game is far from over.
scene direction: andrew activates his jet-pack and lifts off as buffy and jonathan stare.
scene direction: but andrew was standing underneath a roof overhang. he hits it with his head, hard, and falls to the ground unconscious.
scene direction: jonathan stares apprehensively at buffy. sound of police sirens.
scene change: cut to exterior police station. a car with its siren wailing and lights flashing pulls up and stops. the driver and his partner get out, open the rear doors and take out andrew and jonathan, both handcuffed. the cops begin leading them inside.
scene direction: jonathan furious
jonathan: jet packs. you jerks were setting me up to take the fall.
scene direction: andrew upset
andrew: he left me. he flew away and left me.
scene direction: they enter the police station, go down some steps and into a lobby area. various cops and handcuffed prisoners are moving about, etc. andrew and jonathan pause and stand there looking around. andrew is crying.
jonathan: oh god. the big house.
scene direction: andrew crying
andrew: how could he do this to me? he promised we'd be together, but ... he was just using me. he never really loved-
scene direction: andrew catching himself
andrew: ...hanging out with us.
scene direction: the cops lead them over to a bench and sit them down.
andrew: you think he'll come back for us? i mean ... he wouldn't just take off, would he?
scene direction: jonathan gives him a look of contempt.
scene change: cut to a highway somewhere, night. the lights of sunnydale are visible in the distance. spike rides up on his motorcycle, cigarette in his mouth. he stops and looks over at the city.
spike: get nice and comfy, slayer. i'll be back. and when i do ... things are gonna change.
scene direction: he tosses his cigarette onto the ground and rides off.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the summers house, day.
scene change: cut to willow and tara's bedroom. they are standing by the mirror as willow finishes buttoning up her blouse. it's white and frilly. tara is also fully dressed.
willow: hey. clothes.
tara: better not get used to 'em.
willow: hmm, yes ma'am.
scene direction: willow grabs tara's belt loop and pulls her in for a kiss. then they hug. tara smiles happily. then spots something over willow's shoulder.
tara: mmmm... xander!
scene direction: willow pulling out of the hug
willow: okay, not quite the response i was fishing for.
tara: no, he's here.
scene direction: tara goes to look out the window. we can see buffy below in the backyard, and xander walking up behind her.
scene direction: willow opening a dresser drawer
willow: think they're making up?
scene direction: tara turning from the window, smiling at her
tara: i hope so, that's the best part.
scene change: cut to the backyard. buffy has a stick and is using it to poke at the bushes and weeds. xander comes up behind her, looking awkward. it's a beautiful sunny day.
xander: time for the spring poking already?
scene direction: buffy turns to see him
buffy: just making sure there are no more evil trio cameras. or evil uno.
xander: the sinister yet addictive card game?
buffy: warren. jonathan and andrew got clinked, but ... warren pulled a rocket man.
xander: you'll find him. he won't be much good without his friends.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: no, he won't.
scene direction: they both move to sit side-by-side on a wooden bench. xander fidgets uncomfortably, then takes a deep breath.
xander: how did we get here?
buffy: scenic route. long drive.
xander: the past few weeks...
buffy: i know.
xander: i thought i hit bottom, but ... it hurt. that you didn't trust me enough to tell me about spike.
scene direction: xander pauses, softly
xander: it hurt.
buffy: i'm sorry. i should have told you.
scene direction: xander small smile
xander: maybe you would have, if i hadn't given you so many reasons to think i'd be an ass about it.
buffy: guess we've all done a lot of things lately we're not proud of.
scene direction: xander slightly larger smile
xander: i think i've got you beat.
buffy: wanna compare?
xander: not so much.
scene direction: beat. they smile tentatively at each other.
scene direction: xander i don't know what i'd do ... without you and will.
scene direction: buffy teary
buffy: let's not find out.
scene direction: xander nods. they hug.
scene direction: buffy i love you. you know that, right?
scene direction: xander spots something over buffy's shoulder and his eyes widen in alarm.
xander: buffy!
scene direction: reveal a very angry warren striding toward them, fast. he still wears the all-black outfit from last night. buffy and xander jump up, turn to face him.
warren: you think you can just do that to me? you think i'd let you get away with that?
scene direction: warren laughs crazily
warren: think again.
scene direction: suddenly he raises a gun and fires wildly at them. buffy frantically shoves xander down. he tumbles to the ground.
scene direction: warren runs off, firing wildly into the air over his shoulder as he goes.
scene direction: closeup of one bullet shattering a window.
scene direction: shot of willow still standing by the dresser, smiling. suddenly, redness splatters across her white blouse. she looks surprised.
scene direction: shot of tara still standing with her back to the window, looking surprised. there's a large red spot on tara's chest, right over her heart.
scene direction: tara frowning
tara: your shirt.
scene direction: tara falls forward.
scene direction: willow shocked, rushing forward
willow: tara?
scene change: cut to the backyard. xander gets up, brushes himself off.
xander: sweet fancy moses! where the hell did he-
scene direction: xander stops, looking to his left. pan quickly over to buffy, lying on the ground on her back, staring upward.
xander: oh god!
scene change: cut to the bedroom. tara lies on the floor. willow grabs her shoulders.
scene direction: willow desperate
willow: tara?! baby?
scene direction: willow rolls tara over, pulling her onto her lap. tara lies limp in willow's arms.
scene direction: willow sobbing
willow: baby, come on! get up!
scene change: cut to the backyard. buffy has a red spot in almost the same place as tara's. xander kneels over her, holding her shoulders. her eyes close, then slowly open again.
scene direction: xander desperate
xander: oh god. buffy? buffy! buffy!
scene direction: xander presses his hands against the wound, making more blood well out.
scene change: cut to the bedroom. willow cries harder as tara continues not responding. willow rocks back and forth holding tara in her lap.
willow: no... no...
scene direction: willow crying
scene direction: shot of buffy lying on the ground staring blankly at the sky as xander continues trying to stop the bleeding.
scene direction: close shot on tara's face and the bullet hole in her chest.
scene direction: willow lifts her head and bares her teeth. her face is wet with tears and her eyes are completely black ... then they go completely red.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon.