scene direction: open on exterior shot of the summers house, day.
scene change: cut to the living room. xander walks in from the kitchen, carrying a bowl of popcorn.
xander: now i get warren being the supervillainy type, but i thought jonathan completely learned that lesson. i never even heard of this other guy.
scene direction: xander sits on the sofa beside anya, puts the popcorn on the coffee table. willow is sitting in a chair opposite the sofa.
willow: you should have seen their headquarters. it was like the nerd natural habitat.
anya: well, if we know where they are, shouldn't we do something?
willow: we tried. buffy was gonna go in there and bust them on the spot.
xander: i'm sensing a 'not so completely.'
willow: yeah, well, she went in, and then-
anya: speaking of buffy, isn't she ready? she's gonna be late for her first day.
willow: hey, respect the narrative flow much?
anya: please continue the story of failure.
willow: so, buffy went in, but they'd cleared out. and she brought back the stuff that they left...
scene direction: willow xander listening, eating popcorn
willow: ... spell books, some parchments,
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: a couple of rare things, charmed objects, and a conjurer's harp...
scene direction: willow trails off, looking a little wistful. xander and anya look at her with concern.
scene direction: willow snaps out of it
willow: a-and they had other stuff, you know, razor scooters, and pictures of the vulcan woman on "enterprise."
xander: ooh!
scene direction: xander chuckles, rubs his hands together, then sees anya's expression
xander: i mean ... nerds.
anya: okay. see, this is why demons are better than people.
willow: interesting turn.
anya: when i was a vengeance demon, i caused pain and mayhem, certainly. but i put in a full day's work doing it, and i got compensated appropriately.
xander: welcome to today's episode of 'go money go!' i hear it daily.
willow: yep, for the rest of your life.
scene direction: xander looks dismayed, continues to contemplate that as anya continues talking.
anya: but supervillains ... want reward without labor, to make things come easy.
scene direction: anya lecturing
anya: it's wrong. without labor there can be no payment, and vice versa.
scene direction: anya shot of willow listening intently
anya: the country cannot progress. the workers are the tools that shape america.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: good to know.
scene direction: the others look over.
scene direction: reveal buffy standing in the doorway, wearing red pants, a red-and-white striped shirt, and a hat with a stuffed animal head on top.
buffy: i was kinda feelin' like a tool.
scene direction: the others stare.
buffy: and now i know why.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on a 1950s-style commercial. sepia-toned picture of the exterior of a fast-food restaurant with cars driving past.
narrator: you've seen us in your city or small town across the american west...
scene direction: picture of the interior of the restaurant with booths and hanging plants.
narrator: ...you've ordered our delicious food...
scene direction: sepia picture of a smiling man in a white shirt and black bowtie, giving a thumbs-up.
narrator: ...from our happy employees!
scene direction: reveal buffy sitting in a small room watching this on a television. she wears a small blue pin reading "buffy summers, trainee".
narrator: but now you're seeing it all from a different way, you're seeing it from behind the counter!
scene direction: picture of a smiling woman ordering food from a smiling employee. this picture starts off sepia-toned and then fades to natural color.
narrator: ...because you've just become part of the doublemeat experience!
scene direction: shot of a geeky teenage boy in the red-and-white striped uniform, holding a tray covered with paper-wrapped burgers.
boy: i'm part of it!
scene direction: shot of a young woman wearing the uniform, holding a tray.
woman: i'm part of it!
scene direction: shot of an older man wearing the uniform.
man: i'm a part of it too!
scene direction: star-cut to a shot of a farm. a picture of a cow appears in front of it.
narrator: this cow...
scene direction: narrator cow moos
narrator: and this chicken...
scene direction: narrator chicken appears beside the cow, and squawks
narrator: ...don't know it yet, but they're destined to become part of it as well! so what happens when a cow and a chicken come together?
scene direction: the pictures of the cow and the chicken swirl together and become a sandwich.
narrator: why, that's a doublemeat medley! let's take a look now at the process of harvesting these two special meats.
scene direction: close shot of a row of cows' rear ends.
scene change: cut to shot of buffy watching. sounds of frantic mooing and squawking, as well as thumping noises. buffy makes a disgusted face.
buffy: holy crap!
scene change: fade to later. the video is still going. now it shows a man in the uniform washing his hands.
narrator: ...washing your hands thoroughly after each visit to the restroom.
scene direction: the man takes a paper towel to dry his hands. zoom in on the paper-towel dispenser bearing the words, "notice employees must wash hands with soap before returning to work".
narrator: follow these rules and you'll be a happy part of the doublemeat family for a long time!
scene direction: the picture changes to the doublemeat palace logo, which is a creature that looks like a cross between a cow and a chicken.
scene direction: buffy stares at the screen, looking dismayed. behind her, a man in the red-striped uniform goes over to the wall and turns on the light. he turns to buffy. he wears thick glasses with ugly black frames. he is manny the manager and this is his office.
manny: interesting, isn't it?
scene direction: buffy fake smile
buffy: oh yes! like how the cow and the chicken come together even though they've never met. it's like sleepless in seattle if,
scene direction: buffy manny turning off the tv
buffy: if meg and tom were, like, minced.
scene direction: buffy smiles at manny. he is completely humorless.
manny: i'm manny the manager. it's not a joke, it's just my name.
buffy: right. y-you mentioned that a couple of times when i filled out the application.
manny: why do you want to work here, buffy? you seem like a sharp young woman, and there are a lot of other jobs.
buffy: well, i-i kinda need money pretty quickly, like, today, and, and so i didn't want to go through a lengthy interview process, and i figured this was probably the fastest... way... to...
scene direction: she pauses as she catches sight of manny's stern face.
buffy: be...cause i ... wanted to be part of the doublemeat experience?
scene direction: manny smiles and nods.
manny: come on, let's take a tour.
scene change: cut to the adjoining employee lounge. manny leads buffy over to a table where two men sit staring at nothing. a row of lockers is in the background.
manny: philip, timothy, this is buffy. she's going to work the counter.
buffy: hi.
scene direction: philip to manny
philip: what happened to the other one? catherine?
manny: emily?
philip: yeah.
timothy: she's gone.
scene direction: weird horror-movie shot of timothy from above, with buffy in the background. timothy continues staring blankly in front of him.
buffy: what happened?
timothy: whatever always happens.
scene direction: manny opens a locker labeled "vacant." it's full of clothing.
scene direction: manny turns
manny: you can use this one.
buffy: uh ... there's, there's someone's stuff in there.
manny: they must have left it. you can toss it, or keep what you want.
buffy: sure they're not coming back?
manny: we have a lot of turnover here.
scene direction: manny starts to walk away as buffy follows. he pauses, points at philip and timothy who are still staring vacantly.
manny: watch these two.
scene direction: manny continues walking
scene direction: buffy follows
buffy: are they gonna do something?
manny: they're solid. follow their example and you won't go wrong.
scene direction: he stops walking next to a wall.
manny: they're lifers.
buffy: lifers?
manny: in it for life. like me. you wanna get something out of this, buffy? you'll do the same. you put the work in, and ten years from now, you'll be where i am.
scene direction: he points at his chest. close shot on a round blue button pinned to his shirt with "10 years" on it.
manny: i promise you.
scene direction: buffy doesn't look excited by the idea.
scene direction: manny turns to the wall where a time clock is mounted next to a rack full of cards. he removes a card and inserts it into the clock, then removes it and hands it to buffy.
manny: congratulations. you're on the clock.
scene direction: buffy looks at her time-card, still not thrilled.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. various employees wearing the red-and-white striped uniform are moving around preparing food. manny and buffy enter.
manny: this is the kitchen. the beating heart of the doublemeat palace.
scene direction: buffy looks around, spots a young woman using a hobart to slice some sort of meat. the round slices fall into the hopper below. the woman stares vacantly ahead of her. buffy walks closer.
buffy: wow. they're all so ... identical.
manny: yeah. they all start to look the same to me too.
buffy: oh, no, not the employees, the, the chicken slices.
scene direction: zoom in slowly on the bottom of the hobart as the chicken slices continue to fall out, one by one.
scene direction: zoom in slowly on buffy's face as she stares at it, mesmerized.
scene direction: zoom in closer on the chicken slices.
scene direction: buffy snaps out of it as we hear a man's voice in the background.
man: uh yeah, medley meal number 2, uh, double-size it...
scene direction: manny pointing
manny: drive-through station's over there. high pressure job, you won't need to go in there.
scene direction: manny pointing around
manny: over there's the grills, the fryers, the walk-in freezer...
scene direction: buffy looks in the direction he indicated the freezer. she begins to walk that way.
scene direction: manny alarmed
manny: you don't need to go in there either!
scene direction: manny follows her
scene direction: buffy goes over to a filing cabinet. on top of it is a large plastic jug marked "dehydrated pickles".
manny: that's the dehydrated pickle storage.
scene direction: manny buffy trying to open the filing cabinet
manny: those are locked!
scene direction: buffy looks at him.
manny: now i want to show you this.
scene direction: he turns and walks off. buffy follows.
scene direction: manny leads her to a rack where a lot of paper-wrapped sandwiches are sitting. he picks one up and begins to unwrap it.
manny: look. the doublemeat medley.
scene direction: he unwraps it with a flourish, revealing a perfect-looking sandwich in a hamburger bun with lettuce, tomato, etc.
buffy: oh, i know the medley! it's just, uh, the video was ... kind of graphic, with the slaughter.
scene direction: buffy wrinkling her nose
scene direction: manny gesturing at the sandwich with his other hand
manny: the classic double-decker with a twist. a pure beefy patty above the mid-bun ... and a slice of processed chicken product below the mid-bun. plus pickles, and the secret ingredient.
scene direction: manny holds it out toward buffy
manny: eat it.
buffy: oh, you know, i had a-a big breakfast. i'll just wait for...
scene direction: manny holds it out and gives her a look. buffy inhales deeply and gives a fake smile.
buffy: uh ... but it smells so good.
scene direction: she takes the sandwich in both hands and takes a bite.
buffy: mm.
scene direction: buffy mouth full
buffy: so, what *is* your secret ingredient?
manny: it's a meat process.
scene direction: buffy looks uncertain, swallows hard.
manny: now i think it's time to start earning your money, don't you, buffy?
scene direction: buffy smiling nervously
buffy: mm-hmm.
scene change: cut to the counter. buffy stands beside a tall young man who is working the cash register.
buffy: so ... what's the deal with manny the manager? if i ask him really nice can i write a children's book called that?
scene direction: gary hands her an empty paper cup
gary: fill this while i get the fries.
scene direction: gary turns away
scene direction: buffy looking at cup
buffy: fill this? i didn't know there was gonna be drug testing on this job.
scene direction: gary laughs
gary: you're funny.
scene direction: gary stops smiling
gary: you better stop that.
scene direction: buffy filling the cup at a soda dispenser
buffy: why?
gary: productivity. one of manny's watch-words. 'levity is the time-thief that picks the pocket of the company.'
buffy: i prefer the one that goes, 'manny's a humorless dolt who picks the pocket of he-should-bite-me.'
scene direction: gary sighs
gary: you really need to be quiet with that.
scene direction: gary picks up the tray with the fries and soda and hands it to the customer.
gary: here you go.
customer: thanks.
scene direction: the customer leaves and another customer comes up, an elderly lady wearing a bushy gray wig.
wig lady: i'd like a small coffee, and cherry pie.
scene direction: shot of the cash register as gary pushes buttons. the buttons all have pictures of food on them.
gary: that's a dollar ninety-two, ma'am.
scene direction: buffy staring
buffy: you hit so many buttons, it's like, button-palooza.
gary: no, it's easy, i - look.
scene direction: the old lady is digging money out of her purse as gary shows buffy the buttons.
gary: there are little pictures of the food on the buttons.
scene direction: gary shot of his finger pointing at the buttons
gary: i hit the coffee button, then i hit the small button. and then cherry pie. there's a picture of a little fried pie.
buffy: uh-huh.
scene direction: the old lady hands over her money.
gary: then, i hit the total button...
scene direction: gary putting the money away
gary: i put the money in the drawer, i close it, and it resets the system. a cocker spaniel could do it.
scene direction: gary looks at the customers
gary: here, why don't you take the next one, the family? they're regulars.
scene direction: gary moves away. buffy moves behind the cash register.
scene direction: buffy to wig lady
buffy: hi. i'm new.
scene direction: wig lady smiling
wig lady: i come here every day.
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: that's nice.
wig lady: oh, you really might make it, dear. not like some of them, where suddenly you never see them again. i can see you here a long time.
scene direction: buffy fake smile
buffy: that's great.
scene direction: gary returns with the food.
wig lady: thank you.
scene direction: she takes it and moves away. the family moves up, father, mother, and three kids.
buffy: hi. welcome to the doublemeat palace, may i help you?
father: yeah. we need two number four medley meals, a junior medley, a fisherman's medley with bacon, and a kid's meal. plus three fries, a chocolatey shake, and extra pickles on one of the medleys.
scene direction: spooky music. buffy looks at the cash register in alarm. zoom in on the cash register with its bewildering array of buttons.
scene direction: zoom in on buffy's anxious face.
scene direction: pan across the row of buttons.
scene direction: buffy stares at the buttons, then looks at the customer.
buffy: excuse me. um, this button.
scene direction: buffy pointing
buffy: does it look chocolatey to you?
scene change: cut to later. pan across the interior of the restaurant with various people sitting in the plastic booths eating. buffy sits at one of the booths, alone, eating a medley. she sighs.
scene change: fade to later. buffy walks slowly through the kitchen area and over to the freezer door, looking around. no one else is visible. she opens the freezer door. inside the walk-in freezer we see a tall rack of shelves laden with boxes of frozen meat(?).
scene direction: buffy closes the door, revealing manny watching her. she jumps.
manny: you don't need to be in there.
scene direction: buffy nervous
buffy: sorry. i was just curious.
manny: curiosity killed the cat.
scene direction: manny moves away
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: theory number five. cat burgers.
scene change: cut to later. pan across several employees mechanically doing their jobs. buffy is working the counter. a couple of customers move aside, revealing anya and dawn.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: hey buffy!
anya: we're here to support your subsistence-level employment. bravo.
scene direction: we see xander and willow are there as well.
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: thank you. this is cool of you guys.
xander: so, buff, how's it going?
buffy: i don't know. i-i've waitressed before, but ... this is different.
scene direction: dawn frowns
dawn: uh, when have you waitressed?
buffy: that summer in l.a. it was a diner, and ... we had, you know, lots of people who didn't tip,
scene direction: buffy willow playing with the straws in the straw dispenser
buffy: and funny funny health code violations ... but ... it, it wasn't like it is here.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: i think there's something wrong, here. w-will, are you okay?
willow: uh, sorry, i, uh...
scene direction: willow puts the straws back
willow: yeah, uh ... something's wrong?
scene direction: the scoobies lean closer to hear buffy.
buffy: there's, there's this manager, right, and he's all scary and mysterious, you know? and then there's the secret ingredient. and,
scene direction: buffy even quieter
buffy: and the people that work here? they're, they're kind of strange, you know? they just ... just stare into space ... plus they disappear.
anya: disappear poof?
buffy: no, not poof. well, i don't think so.
xander: it's fast food. i have swum these murky waters, my friend. there's the assorted creepiness, there's staring, there's the enthusiastic not showing up at all. i think you're seeing demons where there's just life.
buffy: i, i didn't say demons. it's just a vibe. i mean, you guys still haven't seen this manager.
anya: well, isn't that him over there, getting the pickles wet?
scene direction: long shot of manny doing something with the jug of dehydrated pickles.
xander: yeah, with the saddle shoes...
scene direction: xander close shot on manny's feet
willow: ...and the glasses?
buffy: i don't know. maybe it's just the video that's freakin' me out.
scene direction: buffy wrinkling her nose
buffy: with the cow, and the chicken, all swirly together.
scene direction: buffy willow making an "ew" face
xander: mm, make me hungry, why don't you?
scene direction: xander looking up at the menu board
xander: how's about one of those delicious medley meals?
buffy: okay, you got it. on me.
scene direction: buffy moves away
xander: hey, thanks!
scene direction: xander to the others
xander: see, i think she'll be fine once she settles into the routine. and by ordering, i'm helping.
dawn: and getting a free meal?
xander: well, yeah.
anya: well, if you like the food here, honey, maybe we should get it for the reception.
dawn: you're serving burgers?
scene direction: dawn anya nods
dawn: cool!
anya: well, time is running very short. after willow gave us the 'whoosh' engagement party, i got slack on the planning 'cause i figured she'd help, but, well, now that's all been blown to hell.
willow: hey, standing right here! standing right exactly here.
anya: sorry. didn't mean to tempt you.
scene direction: willow and xander roll their eyes.
scene direction: anya whispers to dawn
anya: everyone's so delicate.
scene direction: anya normal voice
anya: anyway, i still have to select the bridesmaids' dresses, and, well, then there are the guests from out of town and the ones from the demon realm -- you wouldn't believe how many of them have yet to let us know either way.
scene direction: buffy returns with a tray.
buffy: there you go, and i double-sized it for ya.
xander: oh, thank you!
scene direction: xander unwraps the burger and takes a big bite.
buffy: and cut way back on the cat.
scene direction: xander mouth full
xander: cat?!
buffy: just kidding.
scene direction: buffy xander gives a sarcastic laugh
buffy: probably.
scene change: cut to later. exterior shot of the doublemeat palace, night.
scene change: cut to inside. there are a few customers sitting and eating. gary is clearing trash off the tables.
scene direction: buffy is leaning on the cash register looking bored. behind her we see an older woman employee just standing and staring into space.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: sloooow night.
scene direction: buffy looks over at the woman, sighs, walks over and tugs the woman's sleeve.
buffy: gina.
scene direction: gina slowly turns to buffy -- not her head, but her entire body turns. her expression is still blank. buffy waves a hand in front of her face.
scene direction: buffy taking off her cap
buffy: since it's slow, do you think they'll mind if i take another break?
gina: we're not allowed. downtime robs us all.
buffy: mm, thus quoth manny. there's no one here.
gina: sure there is.
scene direction: gina indicating the counter
gina: look.
scene direction: buffy frowns, turns.
scene direction: reveal spike standing by the counter, examining the menu board above.
buffy: this'll make my day complete.
scene direction: buffy sighs, walks over to the cash register
buffy: what?
spike: what's in the doublemeat nuggets?
buffy: i'm working. go away.
spike: yeah, and you chose to be in the consumer service profession, and i'm a consumer.
scene direction: spike smirking
spike: service me.
scene direction: buffy not amused
buffy: order something or go.
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: give a bloke a chance for his eyes to adjust. damn fluorescent lights. makes me look dead.
scene direction: buffy just makes an annoyed face.
spike: some demons love 'em. the way they vibrate makes the skin twitch. that the kinda demon you are, luv?
buffy: i am not a demon. i don't know why you can hit me, but
scene direction: buffy firmly
buffy: i am not a demon.
spike: oh. i see. that why you took this job? prove something to yourself? a normal job for a normal girl?
scene direction: spike shakes his head
spike: good way to drive yourself crazy, that is.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: i'll be fine.
scene direction: spike leans forward, puts his hands on the counter.
spike: buffy.
scene direction: she just stares at him.
spike: you're not happy here.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: please don't make this harder.
spike: you don't belong here. you're something ... you're better than this.
buffy: i need the money.
spike: i can get money.
scene direction: spike gestures with his head
spike: walk with me now, come on.
buffy: i ... i need to go help gary with the fries.
scene direction: she turns to go but spike grabs her arm.
spike: you gotta get outta here, this place'll do stuff to you.
scene direction: buffy pulls free and walks away.
spike: this place'll kill you!
scene change: cut to the alley behind the doublemeat palace. camera angle from the point of view of someone hiding behind some trash cans. we see gary come out the back door and begin doing something with the trash. he hears a noise, looks around, toward the camera.
gary: someone there?
scene direction: camera angle moves up as from the pov of someone coming out from hiding. gary's face shows recognition.
gary: oh, hi, what are you doing? what, what-
scene direction: camera angle moves closer as gary suddenly begins to scream.
scene direction: close shot of his cap falling to the ground as screaming continues.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on exterior shot of the doublemeat palace, day.
scene change: cut to inside. close shot on the time clock reading 9 00. we see buffy standing behind timothy as he punches in.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: feels like i just left, you know?
scene direction: timothy turns slowly to look at her.
timothy: you came back.
scene direction: timothy punches his card
scene direction: buffy not thrilled
buffy: i came back.
scene direction: timothy moves away. buffy takes down her time-card and punches it. she goes to walk off and finds manny standing there. she jumps and gasps.
manny: gary's gone.
buffy: gary. oh, the guy that helped me out at the counter yesterday?
manny: he didn't show up this morning.
buffy: well, shift's just starting.
manny: he was supposed to unlock early this morning. didn't show. pull his card.
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: well, i'm, i'm sure, you know, he's just late.
scene direction: buffy removes gary's card from the rack
buffy: he didn't seem like he was leaving.
manny: i'm moving timothy to counter. you're on grill.
buffy: me?
manny: i've been watching you.
buffy: b-but i-i don't know how to grill.
scene direction: manny smiling
manny: just think. this is the last day you'll ever be able to say that.
scene direction: buffy looks displeased. she walks past him.
scene change: cut to the grill. buffy stands beside it as philip is explaining how it works.
philip: you put the beef on the grill, you hit the button, then it beeps. you flip the beef, hit the other button, then it beeps. you put it on the bun...
scene direction: philip pauses, thinking
philip: there's not a button for that.
buffy: repeat until insane.
scene direction: close shot on the grill as philip puts meat patties on it.
philip: it eliminates variation.
scene direction: philip pushes button
philip: every burger at every doublemeat palace is the same.
scene direction: philip buffy looking at him
philip: people don't like variation.
buffy: got it. variety is the spice of bad.
philip: mm.
scene direction: philip has his arms crossed, staring at the meat. steam rises as the meat cooks.
buffy: so ... what's the secret ingredient?
scene direction: philip not taking his eyes off the grill
philip: it's a meat process.
buffy: well, what does that mean?
philip: it's a process, they do it to the meat.
buffy: but, what *is* it?
philip: it's just the name of the process.
scene direction: buffy giving up
buffy: oh. yeah.
scene direction: the grill beeps. philip picks up a metal spatula and gives it to buffy.
buffy: so, i ... guess we're gonna get ... kinda greasy, huh?
philip: mm.
scene direction: close shot on the grill as buffy flips the burgers over.
philip: skin ... hair ... eyelashes ... nostrils...
scene direction: buffy makes a disgusted face.
philip: ...inside your ears...
scene direction: philip looks at buffy
philip: you wanna look inside my ears?
scene direction: buffy very disgusted
buffy: no. no, that's okay.
philip: once i noticed i couldn't hear and went to the doctor. he said it was grease ... that made a plug.
scene direction: buffy ew
buffy: ohh.
philip: mm. they gave me a kit. kit for cleaning my ears.
scene direction: philip smiling
philip: it's got this little bulb mechanism.
scene direction: buffy fake smile
buffy: imagine that.
scene direction: philip laughs, and buffy tries to laugh too.
scene direction: manny os
manny: buffy?
buffy: yay! it's manny!
scene direction: relieved, she puts down her hat and goes over to manny.
manny: you're working a double shift.
buffy: what? a...nother eight hours? right after these eight hours? but that's ...
scene direction: buffy whining
buffy: so many hours.
manny: you get paid for it. plus an extra free doublemeat medley.
scene direction: buffy pouting
buffy: what happened? why the double shiftiness?
manny: gary didn't show. and now one of my grinder guys is late too.
buffy: but they could still show up, right? i mean, they could be anywhere.
scene direction: suddenly a huge bag of meat is slammed down onto the table beside buffy. she makes a face. we see it was timothy who just arrived with the meat.
timothy: your meat's here.
scene change: cut to xander's apartment. xander sits on the sofa, talking on the phone.
xander: yeah, okay, bye.
scene direction: xander hangs up, yells
xander: ahn, that was buffy, she's working late, so i might have to go- yah!
scene direction: xander turns to see a woman standing in the middle of the room. she wears a long cape over a purple blouse and gray pants. her face is all mottled and veiny (like anya's in episode "the wish"). smoke or mist surrounds her. she holds out her arms.
scene direction: halfrek deep resonant voice
halfrek: i have been called, and vengeance shall i wreak.
scene direction: halfrek points at xander
halfrek: cower, masculine one ... tremble as you face my wrath!
scene direction: anya enters from the other room, holding pen and paper.
anya: xander, i'm starting to think that maybe we should do a pot-luck thing.
xander: honey?
scene direction: anya turns to see where he's looking. she gasps.
scene direction: halfrek resonant voice
halfrek: hello. i am here to tear this man apart.
scene direction: halfrek anya smiling happily
halfrek: how many pieces do you wish?
anya: halfrek!
scene direction: halfrek normal woman's voice
halfrek: anyanka? oh my god!
scene direction: both women squeal and giggle and hug.
anya: how are you, how are you?
xander: you two ... you know each other?
anya: funny, halfrek, i didn't summon you to kill xander, i called to invite you to our wedding.
halfrek: y- oh my ... what an embarrassing mistake!
scene direction: halfrek anya shows her the engagement ring
halfrek: oh my god, gorgeous!
scene direction: they continue giggling. xander stands up slowly.
xander: wow, um, you two clearly have some catching up to do. so i'll, uh ...
scene direction: xander gestures
xander: i'll not be in the apartment.
scene direction: they watch him leave.
anya: gosh, it's swell to see you again, hallie, i didn't mean to have you materialize all the way here, i mean, not-not till the ceremony, i mean.
halfrek: i guess i got the message garbled.
scene direction: halfrek laughs
halfrek: you know how it is, half the time i have no idea if i'm maiming the right guy.
scene direction: she giggles. anya nods. they both look in the direction xander went.
halfrek: so, um ... you're marrying that man with the large upper arms?
scene direction: anya smiling
anya: yes.
halfrek: why?
anya: well, because i love him.
halfrek: hmm.
anya: oh, we're gonna be very happy together.
halfrek: hmm.
anya: what?
scene change: cut to the restaurant. buffy lowers a basket of uncooked french fries into the vat of hot oil. it begins to bubble and sizzle.
scene direction: creepy horror-movie music. buffy looks at another basket which is sitting above the oil. the oil underneath it bubbles wildly.
scene direction: timothy os
timothy: it's boiling with nothing in it. sometimes it does that.
scene direction: shot of timothy and buffy standing side-by-side staring mesmerized at the boiling oil.
timothy: they say bugs fall in there.
scene direction: timothy pause
timothy: oh, i'm back. you can go on your break now.
scene direction: buffy snaps out of it, turns to walk away. she catches sight of the window and stops.
scene direction: reveal spike walking past outside the window, looking in at her. he stops walking to look at her.
scene direction: buffy takes off her cap and runs her hand through her hair, looking at spike.
scene direction: spike resumes walking.
scene change: cut to the alley. buffy stands leaning her back against the wall as spike stands pressed up against her with his hands on the wall beside her shoulders. buffy has her hands on his upper arms. spike is moving rhythmically against her (we see them only from the waist up). he moves his head as if to kiss her but she turns her face away. spike continues to move as buffy stares blankly off to the side. on the wall beside them hangs a poster with the word "teamwork."
scene change: cut to willow's bedroom. willow lies on her stomach on the bed, marking a book with a yellow highlighter. the door is open. we hear knocking.
willow: come in.
scene direction: amy appears in the doorway.
amy: it's me. dawn said i could come up.
scene direction: willow looks surprised. amy comes into the room.
amy: so, is she pissed at you too, or just me?
scene direction: amy willow doesn't reply
amy: what did you tell her about me?
scene direction: willow stops highlighting, takes a few deep breaths before looking up at amy.
willow: d'you want something?
scene direction: willow fidgeting nervously with her pen
amy: um ... yeah ... actually. i mean, i, i don't, don't know if you wanted to keep it, or...
scene direction: amy looks to her left. shot of the cage she lived in when she was a rat.
willow: you want it? really?
amy: well, yeah, you know, i mean ... it's not much, but it's home. or it was. i don't know, i guess it's stupid, but...
willow: no, i-it's not stupid. you can have it, of course.
scene direction: amy pauses, then sits down on the bed beside willow.
amy: hey. so i hear you got this whole cold-turkey thing goin' on.
scene direction: amy willow nods
amy: how's that going?
willow: it's good. it's really good. i mean, i-it was hard at first ... frustrating ... doing everything the slow way. it was like, 'is everything gonna take forever, forever?'
scene direction: amy sympathetically
amy: yeah.
scene direction: willow still fiddling with pen
willow: but, uh, it's better now. i'm ... getting my focus back.
amy: mm. i can see that.
scene direction: amy indicates willow's book. we see that willow has highlighted all the text on the entire page.
scene direction: willow defensively
willow: it's a pivotal page.
scene direction: willow sits up, closes book
amy: so this is it, huh? this is ... gonna be your life from now on?
willow: what?
scene direction: willow uncertainly
willow: no.
amy: well, you're never gonna do it again. ever.
scene direction: amy gets up
amy: you're never gonna ... feel how it made you feel.
scene direction: amy kneels to look at the rat cage.
willow: don't think that's the way to look at it.
amy: hey will? it's your birthday.
scene direction: amy stands up, picks up the cage
willow: um, no it isn't. but now that you mention it, buffy's is coming...
amy: potestas.
scene direction: amy latin translation: "power" or "you have the power."
scene direction: blue light shoots from amy to willow. willow gets up quickly. her eyes are all-black with magic, and little streams of blue magic crackle around her hands.
willow: what?
scene direction: willow looking at her hands
scene direction: amy just watches.
scene direction: willow stares at her hands, turns and touches a vase on the bedside table. the vase peels away in sections like a flower.
scene direction: she touches a lamp on the table and it sparkles and then disappears.
scene direction: willow alarmed
willow: amy...
scene direction: amy smiling
amy: it's a gift. it's magic ... and it didn't come from you. it came from me. completely legal.
scene direction: amy pause
amy: enjoy.
scene direction: amy leaves, carrying the cage.
scene direction: willow stands there panting and looking anxiously at her hands.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the doublemeat palace, night.
scene change: cut to inside. close shot of ground meat extruding out of a grinder. spooky hypnotic music.
scene direction: close shot of buffy watching.
scene direction: overhead shot of the grinder with blades rotating and moving chunks of meat around with them.
scene direction: close shot of the hopper with the ground meat oozing out into it.
scene direction: suddenly buffy crouches down and digs around in the ground meat with her hands. she finds a severed human finger, picks it up and looks at it.
scene change: cut to manny's office. he is hanging up a framed poster reading "dedication." buffy rushes in holding the finger.
buffy: look! look what i found under the meat grinder!
manny: oh my god.
buffy: wanna tell me what's going on?
manny: i'm not sure.
buffy: try again.
scene direction: manny nervous
manny: well... there was an accident, maybe six weeks ago, a grinder incident.
buffy: right, but see, *this* isn't six weeks old. this, is new.
manny: it is? oh... well, maybe gary did come in this morning, or, i don't know, late last night, maybe there was an accident. got himself to the hospital.
buffy: right. maybe he's in the hospital.
scene direction: buffy louder
buffy: or maybe, he's in the grinder! huh? huh? meat process, secret ingredient? maybe, gary's on the grill! or maybe he's under the pickle chips!
scene direction: she turns and runs off.
manny: buffy. buffy!
scene direction: he follows her.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. buffy goes running through it and into the customer area.
scene direction: buffy yells
buffy: stop! stop! everyone, you have to stop! stop eating!
scene direction: she shoves a customer's tray so that it spills, grabs a burger from another customer's hand.
scene direction: we see the family from earlier. the little boys begin to cry as buffy grabs their food away from them.
buffy: no, you can't have this! it's not beef! it's people!
scene direction: she continues to run through the restaurant shoving customers' trays off their tables and similar.
buffy: the doublemeat medley is people!
scene direction: manny and timothy run over and grab her, begin hauling her back toward the kitchen.
buffy: the meat layer is definitely people! it's people! it's people! probably not the chickeny part. but who knows? who! knows!
scene direction: the people stare at her. the old woman from before pushes to the front, holding up a half-eaten pie.
wig lady: what about the cherry pie?
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the same scene as manny and timothy have managed to wrestle buffy back into the kitchen area. she shoves timothy aside with one arm.
manny: what are you doing? i thought you were part of the team!
scene direction: buffy backhands manny and he flies onto a counter, slides across it and onto the floor.
scene direction: philip rushes buffy and she shoves him back with slayer-strength. he flies across the room.
scene direction: manny lies on the floor glaring up at buffy.
manny: you are fired.
scene direction: buffy gives him an angry look and storms out.
scene change: cut to xander's apartment. halfrek and anya are drinking tea from delicate china cups.
halfrek: tell me more about xander.
anya: you keep asking about him. do you think i'm making a mistake?
halfrek: do you?
anya: well, no! xander, he...
scene direction: anya ponders
anya: he's very kind, and brave ... he has the sweetest smile and the nicest body, and ... he loves me. i mean, sometimes it isn't easy, but, he does.
halfrek: who told you that it isn't easy to love you?
anya: well, you know, i'll do something, or say something, and, and then he has to say stuff like,
scene direction: anya imitating xander
anya: 'it's incorrect for you to appreciate money so much,' or, or, 'observe: here is how a real human would behave.'
halfrek: oh, so he corrects you?
anya: well, no, it's just ... um ... well, no, i mean, now i'm all confused, i mean, wha, do you think there's something wrong with, with the way he treats me?
scene direction: halfrek shrugs
halfrek: do you?
anya: okay, you have to stop doing that. i love xander.
halfrek: even though he thinks he knows better than you?
anya: b-but he doesn't, he doesn't think that.
scene direction: halfrek quickly
halfrek: okay. i'm sorry.
scene direction: halfrek small laugh
halfrek: i was just curious. you know, you don't have to say another thing about it if you're not comfortable.
anya: b-but i am! i mean ... it's not like i'm hiding any deficiencies or anything.
halfrek: hmm.
scene change: cut to close-up of xander's face. he holds a bunch of playing cards and is staring at them.
xander: i have absolutely no threes. go fish.
scene direction: close shot on a table with a pile of cards. a hand reaches to take a card from the pile. a paper-wrapped bundle lands on the table beside the cards.
scene change: cut to wider shot and we see that we're in the magic shop. buffy stands beside the table where dawn and xander are playing cards.
scene direction: buffy hands on hips
buffy: i call an emergency meeting, and this is it? where's willow? where's anya?
dawn: i-i couldn't find willow. i knocked and knocked on her door.
xander: and anya's entertaining a vengeance demon named hallie. say buff, did you ever see anya as a demon? 'cause if that's it ... whoa.
buffy: there's something wrong at the doublemeat palace. really wrong.
scene direction: she turns and walks over toward the counter. dawn gets up and follows.
dawn: have you been demon-fighting? is that why you smell funny?
buffy: no! i'm talking about...
scene direction: buffy pauses, sniffs her shirt, pulls some hair in front of her face and sniffs it, makes a face.
buffy: ucch. that's great. that's, that's just great. i try to do the simplest thing in the world, get an ordinary job in a well-lit place, and look, i'm right back where i started. blood and death and funky smells.
scene direction: buffy fiddling with something on the counter
buffy: look. look what i found near the grinder.
scene direction: close shot of the severed finger as buffy removes some tissue paper that she had wrapped it in.
scene direction: dawn very heartfelt
dawn: ew.
scene direction: dawn pause
dawn: whose is it?
buffy: i don't know. it might be this guy named gary, the only one in the whole place who didn't seem all brain-dead. he didn't show up this morning. except now i think he was there the whole time. as the secret ingredient. we need to analyze that burger. we need to find out if it used to be people.
scene direction: xander turns from the table in alarm. we see that his mouth is full of burger.
xander: what?!
scene direction: buffy and dawn turn to look at him. the empty burger wrapper is on the table beside him.
scene direction: xander swallows
xander: people?
buffy: xander, you ate the burger?!
scene direction: xander stands up, yells
xander: well, first you say it's cat, then you come in and hand me a burger, blah blah blah, five minutes later 'oh and by the way, it happens to be hot delicious human flesh'!
buffy: i needed that burger to analyze it. now i'm gonna have to get another one.
xander: *that's* your problem with this scenario? you getting seconds?
scene direction: the door jingles as willow rushes in.
willow: late! late, sorry, i ... i was reading for school, well, highlighting anyway.
scene direction: willow quietly
willow: anyway, late.
xander: yeah, you just
scene direction: xander deep breath, gesturing at the empty wrapper
xander: missed the gary burger.
willow: what are we doing? let's jump right in. did xander say something about food?
scene direction: willow goes to put her purse on the table. she touches a pencil that's sitting on the table and it goes limp (as if the pencil had turned into rubber). willow quickly picks it up and shoves it into her purse to hide it.
dawn: you wouldn't want any. apparently the doublemeat medley is people.
scene direction: xander belches and puts his hand over his mouth. willow looks at the burger wrapper in disgust.
willow: whoa. bad.
buffy: i bet it's not even just this one time. or even this one town. there are doublemeat palaces all over california.
scene direction: dawn disgusted
dawn: i've eaten there a lot.
buffy: well, everyone has! they've got the perfect deal. everyone expects high turnover of the employees, they get the meat for nothing, and ...
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: and they have us disposing of the bodies! how sick is that?
scene direction: buffy xander still looking disgusted
buffy: we need to bring down the whole corporation. will, xander ate the burger, is there any way for sure to figure out what it was?
willow: well, yeah, i can start analyzing it with science, not ... i can use science.
scene direction: willow to xander
willow: you ate it?
scene direction: xander puts up his hand as if to say 'i don't want to talk about it'.
dawn: um, we have the wrapper. there's little scribbles of meat on the wrapper.
scene direction: dawn willow nods
scene direction: buffy picking up her jacket
buffy: okay, good, you guys get working on that. it's after closing, so i'm gonna go there and see what i can find out.
scene direction: buffy leaves
scene direction: willow breathing heavily
willow: cool, you go. we'll be good.
scene direction: willow looks a little shaky but she goes to the table and starts setting up. dawn walks over.
dawn: are you okay?
willow: i'm just worried about buffy.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the doublemeat palace, all dark for the night.
willow voiceover: she could be walking into anything.
scene change: cut to inside. buffy walks slowly through the dark restaurant.
scene direction: she opens the door to the walk-in freezer and walks in, looking around. the door begins to swing shut behind her. she grabs it just before it locks her in. she leaves the freezer.
scene change: cut to the meat grinder. buffy touches one of the blades, then looks at her fingers and sniffs them. she crouches down to look at the opening where the ground meat comes out.
scene direction: metallic noise from behind. buffy turns, frowns.
buffy: manny?
scene direction: she gets up, starts walking in that direction. suddenly she falls down out of shot.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: ohh. manny?
scene direction: she stands up again, back into the shot, holding a shoe with a severed foot in it. the ankle stump is bloody. the shoes are the style manny was wearing earlier. buffy wrinkles her nose.
buffy: guess you really were a lifer.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. dawn and xander sit at the counter in background. in foreground we see willow with a microscope and a bunch of test-tubes arrayed in front of her. several of the test tubes hold yellow or orange liquid. willow holds a beaker of green liquid.
scene direction: willow whispers
willow: don't need magic. don't need it. don't need it.
scene direction: she pours the green liquid into some of the test tubes.
scene direction: pan over to dawn and xander.
dawn: my friend janice? her sister's a lawyer.
xander: you think i should sue over the burger? that's interesting.
dawn: no, i just mean...
scene direction: dawn sighs
dawn: buffy's never gonna be a lawyer, or a doctor. anything big.
xander: she's a slayer. she saves the whole world. that's way bigger.
dawn: but that means she's gonna have like crap jobs her entire life, right? minimum wage stuff. i mean, i could still grow up to be anything. but for her ... this is it.
xander: okay, but maybe you'll be a lawyer or a doctor, and you can use all your money to support your deadbeat sister.
scene direction: dawn sarcastic
dawn: oh, that's terrifically better. thanks.
willow: hey, guys, i-i think i've got it.
scene direction: xander and dawn get up, walk toward willow.
xander: good job, will. those aren't, like, potions, are they?
willow: no, no potions. it's not magic, it's chemistry. you can tell by how damn slow it is.
scene direction: xander sits beside willow as dawn stands on her other side.
willow: i made a solution that reacts to the proteins in human blood. so we're pretty close to knowing for certain.
scene direction: anya comes rushing in.
scene direction: anya panting
anya: i'm here! i'm here.
dawn: we're doing chemistry.
anya: oh. so sorry i hurried.
xander: hey, did your friend have a good time? and then leave?
scene direction: anya sullen
anya: she's gone.
xander: so, ahn, the way she looked, with ... the face...
scene direction: xander nervous laugh
xander: that wasn't what you used to look like, was it?
anya: is there something wrong with that? i mean, did you think she was unattractive?
xander: okay, is there any answer to that question that won't make you nuts?
anya: halfrek was always considered to be a great beauty.
xander: well, hon, she was a little...
scene direction: xander anya glaring
xander: ...there was some veinyness.
willow: hold this.
scene direction: willow hands something to xander
willow: okay. if the solution reacts to the proteins, then i'll be able to see it.
scene direction: willow quickly
willow: i mean, i'll be able to look through the microscope and, and then see it.
scene direction: willow bends over the microscope
scene direction: anya to xander
anya: it's not like you're so perfect either, what with your ... strangely large upper arms and your tendency to criticize.
xander: huh?
scene direction: dawn to willow
dawn: what do you see?
willow: there's no reaction.
xander: oh god, no! no reaction!
willow: which means it's not human.
scene direction: xander upset
xander: it's not human!
scene direction: xander realizing
xander: it's not human?
anya: well, is it demony? i mean, maybe someone's ... you know, killing demons and using them as a cheap source of meat. i mean, we've all heard of that.
scene direction: dawn makes a very disgusted face to show that she hasn't heard of that until now.
anya: and by the way, i'm opposed to using demon meat, no matter how much money it saves.
scene direction: anya to xander
anya: does that surprise you?
xander: again, i say 'huh?'
scene direction: willow still looking in microscope
willow: no, i'm not sure what i'm seeing. cellulose?
scene direction: shot of the slide on the microscope. looks like a lot of brownish cells clinging together.
scene direction: willow pulls back from the eyepiece.
willow: there's something weird here.
scene direction: cut back to the doublemeat palace. buffy walks slowly through the kitchen, still holding the severed foot. she sees something on a table.
buffy: scalp?
scene direction: she puts the foot down on the table and stares at the thing.
buffy: wig!
scene direction: buffy picks it up
buffy: wig lady?
scene direction: wig lady os
wig lady: oh dear.
scene direction: buffy turns to find the old lady standing behind her, bald.
wig lady: wig lady, is that what they call me?
scene direction: buffy stares at her, frowning.
wig lady: i don't care for that.
scene direction: wig lady takes a few steps closer
wig lady: i mean, i have to do something to hide this.
scene direction: a huge snake-like thing pushes its way out of the top of her bald head. its eyes are her eyes, so it leaves her face eye-less and sagging. it has a round bald head and a toothy mouth with the eyes underneath the mouth. it extends to at least ten feet long, still connected to the old lady, and hovers in the air in front of buffy's face. the face on the end of it squeals and suddenly squirts a mist at buffy.
scene direction: buffy tries to get away but finds she can't move.
wig lady: it's paralyzing. don't try to move, dear. you really can't, much.
scene direction: the snake-head thing continues to squeal and move toward buffy as she tries to back away.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. the wig lady stands there with the snake creature protruding from her head. buffy manages to break free and jump to the side as the creature strikes out at her.
wig lady: the paralysis spreads upward, by the way. you may want to flail your arms a bit while you still can.
scene direction: buffy is struggling away slowly, gripping the counter for support. the wig lady follows.
wig lady: did i tell you? you're my favorite.
scene direction: we get a close shot of her face clearly showing that she has no eyes. buffy glances back, continues trying to get away.
wig lady: doublemeat workers. you're all so full of doublemeat burgers, and you just slide down so smooth.
scene direction: buffy reaches the end of the counter she's leaning on, falls to the floor and tries to push herself back up.
wig lady: oh, i just love the paralysis. it means i can eat you slowly.
scene direction: the snake-head is right up in buffy's face. suddenly she hits it with something and it flies aside, squealing.
scene direction: buffy begins crawling along the floor, using mainly her arms.
scene change: cut to outside. willow walks up to the front door and tries to open it, but it's locked. she puts her hands against the glass and peers inside.
scene direction: cut back to inside. buffy still pulling herself along the floor. shot of the wig lady's feet walking toward her.
scene direction: buffy reaches the other side of a metal table/counter and sits up beside it, using her hands to pull her paralyzed legs up beside her. she grunts, then looks alarmed and tries to be quiet.
wig lady: i know you're under there.
scene direction: the snake head squeals. buffy cringes.
scene direction: willow os
willow: buffy? are you in there?
scene direction: buffy looks around as willow's voice seems to come from nowhere, sounding tinny.
scene change: cut to outside. willow stands beside the drive-through ordering station, talking into the microphone.
willow: i can't see you inside.
scene direction: cut back to inside. we see buffy crouching behind a metal table with the wig lady on the other side.
scene direction: buffy looks alarmed, begins to move again, pulling herself along the floor beside the metal counter.
scene direction: willow os
willow: buffy, if you're in there, the burger isn't people.
scene direction: suddenly the snake head comes between the sections of the counter and faces buffy, squealing. she gasps and ducks down to slither underneath the bottom shelf.
scene change: cut to outside. willow is still talking.
willow: they aren't even meat, it's all processed vegetables. isn't that weird?
scene change: cut to inside. buffy pulls herself along underneath the tables/counters.
willow: buffy, there's more. something happened today ... i-it wasn't my fault. it was amy's fault, but i feel so bad about it.
scene direction: cut back to the kitchen. buffy pokes her head out from under the table, looking around cautiously.
scene direction: willow os
willow: it was amy's power, but, but it felt like i was doing everything myself. and i couldn't stop. and now it's gone and i feel kinda shaky and ... like i, i need it ... buffy?
scene direction: buffy looks around, doesn't see anything, begins to crawl out. suddenly the wig lady appears, the snake head in buffy's face again. she slides back underneath but the wig lady bends over and grabs buffy's shoulders, hauls her out and onto her feet.
scene direction: then the lady just stands there as the snake head begins to bite at the shoulder of buffy's jacket. buffy gasps in pain, reaches behind her trying to find something on the counter that she can use as a weapon, but she only manages to push some stuff off onto the floor. the wig lady grabs buffy again.
scene change: cut to outside.
scene direction: willow alarmed
willow: buffy, something fell.
scene direction: cut back to inside. the wig lady shoves buffy across the room. she bumps up against the meat grinder and her hand hits the red button. the grinder blades begin to whirl.
scene direction: the snake head still has hold of buffy's shoulder and is biting her. buffy seems completely paralyzed.
scene direction: willow runs in.
willow: buffy!
scene direction: the wig lady and the snake head both turn to look at willow.
wig lady: visitors! how nice.
scene direction: the snake head spits its paralyzing liquid at willow. she shrieks and jumps aside.
scene direction: the wig lady and snake head turn back to buffy. it resumes biting buffy.
scene direction: suddenly willow appears behind the wig lady.
willow: missed me.
scene direction: she swings something, severing the snake body right above the wig lady's head. the snake mouth squeals and lets go of buffy, leaving a bloody wound on her shoulder.
scene direction: buffy falls to the floor.
scene direction: the wig lady groans and sways back and forth. we get a really nice disgusting shot of the severed stump on her head, oozing yellow liquid. the lady and the severed snake creature fall to the floor beside buffy. the creature is still wriggling and squealing.
willow: buffy!
scene direction: buffy lifts her hand, holding a plastic butter knife. she stabs the snake with it. it continues to squeal.
scene direction: willow runs over and grabs the snake creature, wrestles it up and throws it into the grinder. all seems quiet for an instant, then the snake head reappears over the edge of the grinder compartment, squealing. willow screams and shoves it back down into the grinder. squealing noises die away, accompanied by disgusting squishy noises.
scene direction: willow leans down and helps buffy up.
willow: buffy, are you all right?
buffy: para...lyzed, but ... i think it's wearing off.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: i did it! i killed it, buffy, look!
scene direction: shot of the inside of the grinder as the blades go round and round, chopping the gray-green creature into smaller bright green pieces with lots of yellowish blood. very icky.
scene direction: buffy and willow look, then look over to the part where the ground meat comes out. ground-up green snake-meat starts oozing out.
buffy and willow: ewwwww.
scene change: cut to next day. bright sunny morning. amy walks down the sidewalk and up the walk to the summers house, rings the doorbell.
scene direction: willow opens the door.
scene direction: amy cheerful
amy: hey.
scene direction: willow not moving aside
willow: amy.
amy: can i come in? my new place isn't set up, and i wanted to borrow some stuff like detergent.
willow: you really can't.
amy: i can't borrow detergent? well, when they start calling me 'stinky amy,' i'm just gonna say, 'hey, not my fault...'
willow: i can't spend time with you anymore.
amy: what?
willow: you can't come in here again.
amy: what's up, y-you didn't like your birthday present?
willow: that's right.
amy: you're telling me that you didn't have a genuine blast? come on, that was a sweet spell. that was like a trip to disneyland without the lines.
willow: you don't get it. what you did to me was wrong. do you have any idea how much harder that makes, just, everything?
amy: you know what i notice? you're not denying that you had fun.
willow: shut up.
amy: oh, yeah. sharp argument you got there. were you on the debate team? i forget. i forgot a lot while you were failing to make me be not a rat.
willow: amy. if you really are my friend ... you better stay away from me. and if you really aren't...
scene direction: beat.
scene direction: willow meaningfully
willow: ...you *better* stay away from me.
scene direction: amy looks surprised, but she turns and leaves. willow goes back inside, closes the door.
scene change: cut to interior of the doublemeat palace, employee lounge. buffy walks in holding a bundle of folded clothing, walks over to the manager's office.
scene direction: we see a woman taking down manny's "dedication" poster. buffy knocks on the door.
lorraine: yeah?
buffy: hi. uh, you must be the new manager. i-i'm buffy summers.
lorraine: i'm lorraine ross. they called me in when manny did his disappearing act. you hear about that? guy just disappeared.
buffy: yeah. i think ... i think that used to happen a lot around here.
lorraine: buffy summers. i heard about you. caused a big scene.
buffy: oh, yeah. practical jokes not really right for the workplace. i so get that now. anyway, i just wanted to return my uniform.
scene direction: buffy hands it over
lorraine: oh. most people don't even bother.
scene direction: buffy starts to leave, pauses and turns back.
buffy: the doublemeat medley ... is vegetables?
lorraine: how do you know that?
buffy: so i guess it's true.
lorraine: um, close the door?
scene direction: lorraine buffy does
lorraine: have a seat.
scene direction: lorraine sits at her desk and buffy sits in the chair opposite.
lorraine: it's a formed and texturized vegetable-based meat-like product, suitable for grinding. it's blended with large amounts of rendered beef fat for flavor.
buffy: wait, the secret ingredient in the beef is ... beef?
lorraine: buffy. you know something powerful here, do you understand that? the doublemeat reputation is built on a foundation of ... well, meat. you can't spread this around.
buffy: i get that.
scene direction: buffy pauses to consider
buffy: it's a valuable secret, isn't it?
lorraine: is there something you want?
buffy: i really need money.
lorraine: you want money?
buffy: no! well, i mean, yes, but, but no, i ... well, i, i want to work. see, i-i have zero money coming in, and there are expenses, and by the time i interview for a new job and get hired and go through a training process, it... well, i'd ... i'd really like to not be fired anymore.
scene direction: lorraine small smile
lorraine: well, i don't want any more practical jokes. i mean it.
buffy: i promise.
lorraine: well, i'm a little short-handed right now, and you're already trained ...
scene direction: lorraine smiles
lorraine: i think you can not be fired.
scene direction: buffy relieved
buffy: thank you. that's, that's great. and i can do the job, i promise that too.
lorraine: i certainly hope so. i don't like short-timers, buffy. i like people who *want* to be here. maybe you didn't take this job seriously before, but from now on?
scene direction: she points at the "5 years" pin on her uniform.
lorraine: see this? i want you to be shooting for this from here on out.
scene direction: buffy looks a little displeased by that, but resigned.
buffy: right. here on out.
scene direction: she gives a small brave smile.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon.
scene direction: the end