scene direction: open on exterior shot of the double meat palace, night.
todd voiceover: you see, buffy...
scene change: cut to inside. close shot of the grill.
todd voiceover: ...the thing you gotta learn about the palace, and this takes a while...
scene direction: pan over to where a scraper is scraping the grease from the top of the grill. a bucket of grease sits beside it. todd, a young man about buffy's age, is leaning against the wall nearby.
todd: ...is that job security all boils down to one simple thing.
scene direction: reveal buffy, doing the scraping. she looks over at todd expectantly.
todd: politics.
scene direction: beat. buffy resumes scraping.
todd: now, i'm not a political animal, but you learn fast around here or it's wham! hello glass ceiling.
scene direction: buffy makes a face as she lifts a spatula-ful of grease. todd tips the bucket so she can dump the grease into it. she resumes scraping.
todd: i mean, it's not like we work at burger world, or the happy bun, where the power structure is simple. no, here at the palace, you gotta keep your friends close, but your enemies? closer.
scene direction: todd buffy nodding, rolling her eyes
todd: it's like machiavelli says.
scene direction: todd buffy looks confused
todd: you know machiavelli, right?
buffy: tall guy, bleached mullet, works day shifts?
scene direction: todd laughs
todd: i'm sorry. my bad. i keep forgetting you dropped out of college.
buffy: i'm reapplying.
scene direction: todd patronizing
todd: good luck with that. well, gotta motor!
scene direction: todd picks up a backpack
todd: don't wanna be late for night school.
buffy: you go to night school?
todd: i'm working on my mba. think i wanna spend the rest of my life cleaning grease traps?
scene direction: todd shakes head
todd: ooh, don't forget to lock up before you go, and the gum under the tables? be sure to give it a good scrape before you leave.
scene direction: buffy sarcastic
buffy: may i?
scene direction: todd leaving
todd: see you tomorrow!
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: yes, you will. and the day after that,
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: and the day after that, and the day after that...
scene change: cut to the graveyard, later. buffy walks along holding a small paper bag with the double meat logo. she wears a long caramel-colored coat over her clothes.
scene direction: buffy sings
buffy: 'get the double treat, that's the double sweet, oh it's hard to beat, when the meat meets-' oh, why can't i get this stupid jingle out of my head?
scene direction: a vampire jumps out in front of her.
vamp: least of your problems now, little girl.
buffy: wait.
scene direction: she turns to put the bag down carefully on a nearby headstone.
vamp: ooookay.
scene direction: buffy turns back
buffy: okay, let's do this.
scene direction: buffy points at him
buffy: quickly.
scene direction: the vamp swings at her. she ducks, then punches him. he reels aside and kicks her. he grabs her by the upper arms and pulls her toward him, moving to bite her neck as she struggles to shove him away.
scene direction: then the vampire pulls back, still holding her.
vamp: what's that smell?
scene direction: vamp sniffing
vamp: geez, slayer, is that you?
buffy: i've been working!
vamp: where, in a slaughterhouse?!
scene direction: buffy pouts
buffy: double meat palace.
vamp: ohhh.
scene direction: he lets go and backs away.
vamp: you know what? let's just call it a night.
scene direction: vamp buffy looking surprised
vamp: if it's all the same to you, and you've been eating that stuff, i'm not so sure i wanna bite you.
buffy: you're dead! you smell like it!
scene direction: buffy vamp shrugging and nodding
buffy: how do you get to say i'm the one who's stinky?
scene direction: buffy pouting
vamp: really, it's, it's cool, i'll just catch you next time.
scene direction: a stake flies into the shot and into his heart. he groans and dusts.
scene direction: buffy looks triumphant for a moment, then lowers her head to sniff herself. she makes a face, picks up her take-out bag and walks off.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene direction: special guest star marc blucas. guest starring ivana milicevic. written and directed by douglas petrie.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on exterior of the summers house, night. buffy walks up the walkway holding her paper bag, sighing.
scene direction: she pauses right before the stairs.
buffy: oh, for pete's sake. spike?
scene direction: she turns. spike appears from behind a nearby tree.
spike: ah, it's a fair cop, you caught me, slayer. however, in all honesty, i think we have to say this one doesn't count. after all, i wasn't exactly hiding.
scene direction: spike walks toward her
buffy: no, spike.
spike: no? what kind of answer is that, you haven't even heard the question yet.
buffy: i don't have to. we both know what you're thinking.
scene direction: spike grins
spike: and we both know ... that i'm not the only one thinking it.
scene direction: he puts his hand out as if to grab her coat collar, and leans in as if to kiss her.
scene direction: buffy slaps his hand away.
buffy: no! not here.
spike: why not?
scene direction: spike pouting
buffy: dawn.
scene direction: buffy looks toward the house
buffy: she's inside waiting for dinner, she's counting on me. i'm not letting her down by letting you in.
spike: so it's the fear of getting caught, then, is it?
buffy: reason number one on a very long list.
scene direction: buffy turns to go
spike: needn't be an obstacle.
scene direction: he takes her hand and pulls her toward the tree. longer shot of the two of them moving along the side of the building.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: spike, i mean it. come on.
spike: i hear you're serious. so am i. i want you ... you want me...
scene change: cut to a closer shot as buffy has her back up against the tree and spike is right in her face.
spike: ...i can't go inside, so ... maybe the time is right ... for you to come outside.
scene direction: buffy sighs, looks at the house, then back at spike. he slowly leans in to kiss her.
scene change: cut to a long shot again. they kiss, buffy drops the paper bag on the ground, and spike pulls her around so that the tree obscures them from our view.
scene change: cut to inside. buffy comes into the kitchen, holding the paper bag and putting her other hand to her forehead. she stops and looks surprised.
buffy: dawn.
scene direction: we see dawn by the refrigerator, looking in. she closes it and turns to buffy.
buffy: hey, hi.
dawn: rough night?
buffy: the usual. i-i brought you dinner.
scene direction: buffy hands the paper bag to dawn across the kitchen island, which is otherwise bare. buffy sits.
dawn: oh, great.
scene direction: dawn opening bag
dawn: oh.
scene direction: dawn takes out a paper-wrapped sandwich and smiles bravely.
buffy: i-i know it's not the most original these days, but ... i made it myself. i-i made hundreds, actually, but this is the, the very best one.
dawn: it ... looks kinda squished.
buffy: oh, well just, you know, just...
scene direction: buffy takes the sandwich and slaps it lightly a few times
buffy: give it a sec.
scene direction: buffy dawn looking disgusted
buffy: yeah, these babies really bounce back. literally.
scene direction: she gives the sandwich back. dawn looks at it, then at her.
dawn: buffy ... it's not like i don't appreciate it, i do. it's just that ...
scene direction: dawn softly
dawn: i can't eat this stuff another night. i'm sorry.
scene direction: buffy fake cheer
buffy: oh! no, it, it's all good. i get it.
scene direction: buffy taking the sandwich back
buffy: tell you what, tomorrow night, i'll, uh, i'll bring home the fisherman's nuggets with cheese.
scene direction: dawn looks less than thrilled. willow enters.
willow: hey, workin' lady. rough night?
buffy: why does everybody keep asking me that?
willow: uh, no reason, i just ... thought you were busy with the slayage 'cause of that grass stain.
scene direction: willow pointing to buffy's jacket
scene direction: buffy tries to look at the back of her jacket, looks upset, takes it off to look at it.
dawn: some vamp get rough with you?
scene direction: buffy examining coat, muttering
buffy: he's not getting any gentler.
willow: he?
scene direction: buffy quickly
buffy: they. them. you know.
scene direction: buffy willow and dawn looking at her
buffy: vampires in the, in the ... general population sense.
scene direction: buffy looks at jacket, sighs
buffy: now i'm gonna have to wash this.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: ready for a bold suggestion?
scene direction: willow smiling at dawn, then at buffy
willow: blow it off! dawnie and i are headed out to the bronze.
dawn: um, do i have your permission and wanna come along?
scene direction: dawn grinning
dawn: you like how i slipped in that permission request like that?
willow: very smooth.
buffy: you guys go.
dawn: really?
willow: buffy, are you sure? i-it might do you good to get away from the double meat lifestyle for a night. see your friends.
dawn: who'd love to see you.
buffy: i'm sure. i've seen enough action for one night.
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: home by eleven?
scene direction: dawn smiles
dawn: on the dot.
buffy: have a good time.
scene direction: dawn smiles, and she and willow exit. buffy picks up the still-wrapped sandwich and stares at it.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: somebody should.
scene direction: she sighs, puts the sandwich back in the bag.
scene change: cut to the bronze. pan across various people drinking and dancing, bartender serving. reveal xander and anya sitting at the bar eating chips from several bags. a notebook sits in front of them bearing the wedding seating chart.
anya: see ... this seating chart makes no sense. we have to do it again.
scene direction: anya xander nodding
anya: we can't do it again. you do it.
xander: the seating chart's fine. let's get back to the table arrangements. i'm starting to have dreams of gardenia bouquets.
scene direction: xander winces
xander: i am so glad my manly coworkers didn't just hear me say that.
scene direction: xander eating chips
anya: will you stop wolfing down those chips? one more bag and you'll pop right out of your cummerbund.
scene direction: she grabs the bag of chips away from him, looks in it and sticks her hand in. xander looks upset.
anya: you're not even hungry, you're just nervous.
scene direction: xander smacking the bar-top
xander: yeah! wedding, one week! we have friends, family, demons flying in, a to-do list getting no shorter, and do not-
scene direction: xander grabs the bag back
xander: -take my chips.
scene direction: they stare at each other angrily. dawn comes over, holding two plastic cups.
dawn: hey guys! how's the soon-to-be-newlyweds? nervous?
anya and xander: no!
scene direction: dawn dubious
dawn: okay. i'll just be over here then.
scene direction: dawn goes over to where willow is fiddling with pool cues.
dawn: your arnold palmer, milady.
scene direction: dawn gives willow a drink
willow: thanks. so how are mr. and mrs. high-strung?
dawn: i'm betting they explode.
willow: you know, when i was little, i used to spend hours imagining what my wedding to xander would be like. and now i look at them...
scene direction: willow shot of anya and xander at the bar
willow: i just think...
scene direction: willow mocking laugh
willow: "nee-hee-hee!" dawn:
scene direction: willow giggles
willow: you're awfully chipper tonight.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: can't hide it.
dawn: hmm. big wedding coming up ... lots of date possibilities ... you and tara are speaking again. you wanna call her? invite her over?
willow: oh, no. too soon for so bold a maneuver.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: but if i did call? she wouldn't hang up on me.
dawn: that's progress!
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: hence the happy.
scene change: cut to buffy's basement. an old boom-box is playing a sad country song. buffy is wearing an old t-shirt and has her coat on the ironing board, rubbing it with a rag. she pauses, looks at the grass stain, resumes rubbing.
scene change: cut to upstairs. buffy is asleep on the sofa, with the coat covering her. it's daylight. sound of a noisy truck engine from outside. buffy slowly wakes up.
buffy: garbage! uhh...
scene direction: she leaps up, pulling the jacket on.
scene change: cut to the street. the garbage truck is pulling away.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: wait! wait up, guys!
scene direction: the truck drives off, revealing buffy behind it, running down the walk with a garbage bag in each hand.
buffy: wait!
scene direction: she stands there panting, watching the truck turn a corner.
scene direction: buffy whining
buffy: don't you want your garbage?
scene direction: she sighs, pouts, turns and walks back toward the house.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. buffy enters through the back door, holding a pile of mail. she begins looking through it. we see dawn standing by the island.
dawn: hey buffy. oh, don't forget, today's trash day.
scene direction: buffy sourly
buffy: thanks.
scene direction: dawn piles her books into her school bag. buffy opens a letter.
scene direction: close shot of the letter. dear ms. summers, we are sorry to reject your application for re-admittance to ucsd. our guidelines dictate that re-admission forms must be processed on or before january 15, 2002. if you have any questions, please feel free to call my office during regular business hours, monday through friday. surrinda blackmaster assistant to the dean.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: 'dear ms. summers, we are sorry to reject...' dawn: what's that?
scene direction: buffy folding the letter
buffy: nothing.
dawn: huh. bronze was fun last night. in a total home-by-eleven-ish way. you should have come.
buffy: well, next time.
scene direction: buffy looks at dawn
buffy: where are you going?
dawn: school?
scene direction: buffy duh
buffy: oh. that's good. uh, don't you want breakfast first?
dawn: already made it. see you this afternoon? unless you're working.
scene direction: dawn coming around the island toward buffy
dawn: tonight then. or, you know, tomorrow's cool. don't work too hard.
scene direction: dawn kisses buffy on the cheek. buffy smiles.
buffy: bye.
scene direction: dawn exits. buffy looks at the kitchen sink, piled high with dirty dishes. she stops smiling, makes a face, sighs. removes her jacket and turns to the sink.
scene change: cut to close shot of the double meat grill with nine burgers cooking. a spatula flipping them over.
scene direction: todd os
todd: and that's where even your best political minds can drop the ball.
scene direction: reveal buffy flipping the burgers, wearing the uniform, while todd stands behind her eating one.
todd: zeitgeist! you're not taking the pulse of the public, the next thing you know you're lbj handing the house keys over to nixon.
scene direction: todd turns to his work
todd: heard back from your college yet?
buffy: yeah.
todd: all right. you know, we're out of special sauce.
buffy: i'll get it.
todd: no no. your turn up front. i'll deal back here. you take the customers.
scene direction: buffy looks less than thrilled. she turns and walks off.
scene change: cut to the counter. buffy walks up to the cash register.
buffy: welcome to the double meat palace, how may i help...
scene direction: she pauses as she sees who it is.
scene direction: reveal riley, standing there dressed all in black with a bulletproof vest on.
buffy: you.
scene direction: closer shot on riley. we see that he has a long scar running from his forehead across one eye and down his cheek. his expression is grim.
riley: hey.
buffy: huh?
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: same scene. buffy stares up at riley.
buffy: riley.
riley: sorry to just drop in on you like this, buffy.
buffy: it's you.
riley: it's me.
buffy: you're here.
riley: i know.
buffy: and ... were you always this tall?
scene direction: riley leans closer
riley: look, this isn't the way i wanted it. but something's come up, something big. we don't have much time. you understand?
scene direction: buffy nodding
buffy: not a work you've said so far.
riley: right. i should have known, anticipated. you're working.
scene direction: longer shot of the restaurant interior. there are a few customers waiting in line behind riley. buffy is the only person working the counter.
scene direction: cut back to close shot.
buffy: well, just counter, not grill any more.
riley: i want to explain, i just don't have time. i've been up for 48 hours straight tracking something bad, and now it's come to sunnydale.
buffy: my hat has a cow.
scene direction: riley sighs
riley: i know that i'm putting you on the spot, showing up like this, but ... but you know, here we are. i need the best. i need you, buffy.
scene direction: riley buffy staring at him
riley: can you help me?
scene direction: todd appears, sticks his face next to buffy's.
todd: hellooo, buffy? people are waiting.
scene direction: buffy and riley stare at each other, oblivious to todd.
scene direction: buffy takes off her double meat hat, puts it down, grabs a black coat from under the counter, and comes out from behind the counter to join riley.
todd: buffy, uh ... buffy! wait! buffy!
scene direction: buffy follows riley out.
scene change: cut to the street. buffy (wearing her black coat over her uniform) and riley walk along.
riley: look, i'm sorry this is all so sudden. you know, if we get a minute, i'd really like to sit down...
scene direction: he stops as something on his belt begins to beep. he grabs it and looks at it.
buffy: what is it?
riley: suvolte demon. rare, lethal ... nearly extinct, but not nearly enough.
scene direction: riley buffy grinning
riley: it's close.
scene direction: buffy starts to laugh.
riley: what?
buffy: sorry. it's just ... you still carry around all that james bond stuff.
scene direction: close shot on the device in riley's hand. it looks like a flip-open cell phone except that instead of a digital display it has a red radar screen. two large blinking red dots show the movement of the demon.
buffy: it's so cute! i forgot.
scene direction: riley puts the device away, gives buffy a look.
buffy: sorry.
scene direction: buffy fake-military
buffy: carry on.
scene direction: riley resumes walking
riley: we've been tear-assing through every jungle from paraguay up, taking out nests. as soon as we put one suvolte down, a dozen take its place. they're breeders, buffy. one turns into ten, ten becomes a hundred. this gets out of hand and there's a war with humans? humans are gonna lose.
buffy: so they're like really mean tribbles.
scene direction: buffy riley gives her another look
buffy: sorry, i've been dealing with these, these geeks, it's, it's a whole thing.
scene direction: sound of demon growling. they both look up.
scene direction: the demon, which looks like a cross between a teenage mutant ninja turtle and the alien from "alien," is across the street knocking over some newspaper vending machines. people scream and run away.
riley: you ready for this?
buffy: yes please.
scene direction: they both start forward. riley holds up a badge.
scene direction: riley yelling
riley: national forestry service, we got a wild bear! everybody stand back!
scene direction: riley pushes a pedestrian aside
riley: look out!
scene direction: people run away as riley approaches the demon. it hits him, slashing his arm with a claw, and he reels back clutching his arm. buffy jumps up onto the demon's back and it flings her off against a wall, then it retreats into an alley.
scene direction: a gun falls to the ground beside buffy. she gets to her knees and picks it up. riley comes over and grabs her arm to help her up. they look at each other.
scene direction: buffy turns and heads toward the alley with riley right behind.
scene direction: they walk cautiously down the alley, looking around. they reach a point where the alley widens.
riley: split.
scene direction: buffy nods. they move off in different directions. suddenly a garbage can flies into the shot, toward riley, but he deflects it. sound of the demon growling.
buffy: riley!
scene direction: buffy tosses him the gun. he takes aim at the demon, shoots it. the gun shoots darts rather than bullets. the dart sticks in the demon's chest. it roars and flails its arms around. buffy runs at it and one of its arms hits her. she reels back against riley, who catches her. the demon leaps up to the roof of the building and is gone.
riley: you all right?
buffy: i'll feel better when we catch it. but it's too fast.
riley: i wouldn't necessarily say that.
scene change: cut to the street. a very large suv comes screeching around the corner. it is black, of course.
scene change: cut to inside. riley is driving while buffy sits in the passenger seat.
buffy: nice wheels.
riley: came with the car.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: know where we're goin'?
riley: got an idea. the tag's on-line. we'll find it.
scene direction: shot of a gps screen on the car's dashboard. it shows a blip for the demon and another one for the car.
buffy: how's your arm?
riley: it'll heal. how you doin'?
buffy: complicated question.
riley: i just meant- buffy: i know.
riley: i hear ya. got some, uh ... big stories to tell you to. if we ever get half a second.
buffy: did you die?
riley: no.
buffy: i'm gonna win.
scene direction: riley looks surprised.
scene direction: buffy takes off her coat, revealing the bright red-and-white doublemeat uniform.
riley: here.
scene direction: riley grabs something from behind the seat and gives it to her
riley: no offense, but this is black ops, and you look like a pylon.
scene direction: buffy looks at it
buffy: ninja wear?
riley: battle gear. lightweight kevlar, state of the art.
buffy: what a surprise.
riley: boys like toys. put it on, thank me later.
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: you won't look?
scene direction: riley staring at the road ahead
riley: i'm a gentleman.
buffy: okay.
scene direction: buffy begins unfolding the clothes
buffy: so ... the black-ops life, it's workin' out for ya?
riley: don't suck.
buffy: they got dental?
scene direction: riley smiles
riley: yeah, we're covered.
scene direction: beat. they both look pensive.
riley: you know, there's not many people i'd ask to risk their life for me, buffy. it's really good to see you.
buffy: thanks.
riley: you're welcome. and buffy ... love the hair.
scene direction: buffy smirks a little.
scene direction: exterior shot of the car speeding down an otherwise empty highway.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of a different highway, this one covered with cars bumper-to-bumper, barely moving. horns honking.
anya voiceover: i think we died in this car on the way to the airport, and now we're stuck in hell.
scene change: cut to the interior of xander's car. xander is driving while anya sits in the passenger seat. numerous bags of chips are on the dashboard.
xander: the radio said no traffic.
scene direction: xander reaching for chips
anya: it's a hell radio, of course it said that. we'll never get to the airport in time to pick up your stupid uncle.
xander: it just gives my uncle rory more time at the bar. trust me, he'll be happy.
scene direction: anya mouth full
anya: great. so he can sleep off his drunken stupor on our newly re-upholstered couch.
xander: he can't afford a hotel.
anya: why are you defending him?
xander: i'm not. i hate my uncle. i hate my whole family. that's why i'm marrying you, to start a new family. have children, make them hate us, then one day they'll get married, we'll sleep on their couch. it's the circle of life.
scene direction: xander smiling
anya: well, the gnarals are teleporting in in twenty minutes. if i'm not there to greet them? somebody's getting incinerated.
xander: why did we ever agree to have your friends, who are demons, and my family, who are monsters, stay at our place?
anya: well, i can only do so much, xander. planning this marriage is like staging the invasion of normandy.
xander: without the laughs. we should have eloped.
anya: no! i've been through too much planning this wedding, and it is *going* to happen. it is going to be our perfect, perfect day if i have to kill every one of our guests and half this town to do it.
xander: mm.
scene direction: xander looks at her bag of chips
xander: cool ranch?
anya: cajun fiesta.
scene direction: xander grabs the bag.
scene change: cut to riley's suv screeching to a halt on a side road. it's mostly rock, a few scraggly trees. riley and buffy get out, come around to the front of the car and start walking. buffy is wearing the black "ninja wear." black long-sleeved turtleneck, black bulletproof vest, black pants, black tool-belt. her hair is pulled back into a neat ponytail.
buffy: end of the line?
scene direction: buffy riley shrugs
buffy: i don't see our demon.
riley: it's not here.
buffy: let me guess.
scene direction: they walk between some low stone buildings. riley grins.
scene direction: they walk over to a fence and look down. we see that they're standing at the top of a huge dam. far below, we can see the water. rough uncut stone walls surround the platform at the bottom.
buffy: down we go?
riley: looks that way.
scene direction: riley doing something with equipment
buffy: that's a big first step. so, mr. finn, got an extra jet-pack for a girl like me?
riley: sorry, fresh out of jet-packs. looks like we'll have to share.
scene direction: riley attaches one end of a rappelling line to the fence.
riley: this test line's built for one, so if we go together, we're not hauling any gear. just be you and me.
buffy: i was never big on the hardware anyway.
riley: you hold onto me?
scene direction: buffy flirty
buffy: if that's what it takes.
riley: come on.
scene direction: riley lifts her up onto the fence. she looks into his eyes.
buffy: ready when you are, agent finn.
scene direction: she puts her arms around his shoulders and they start down.
scene direction: long shot of the two of them descending along the side of the dam.
scene direction: they reach the bottom and stand on a stone platform with a low stone wall at the edge. riley detaches the line from his belt. they both start looking around. they duck past a large pipe with a small trickle of water coming out. past it, the stone ledge opens out into a wider space with a ladder at one wall.
scene direction: riley walks past a door and the demon comes out of it, tackling him from behind. he throws it off and ducks a swing of its arm.
scene direction: buffy attacks the demon and gets thrown aside. she leans against the stone wall and looks over her shoulder at riley grappling with the demon. buffy kicks back at the demon and gets it off riley. he punches it, it hits him. buffy kicks it again. it hits riley and then buffy, sending them both reeling back.
scene direction: riley attacks again and gets hit in the stomach. he leans over in pain.
buffy: riley!
scene direction: buffy grabs him and uses him as leverage to lift both feet off the ground and kick the demon back. it falls to the ground.
scene direction: riley turns buffy around and pushes her up against the wall. they both pant and stare deeply at each other.
scene direction: behind them, another black-clad figure rappels down from above, landing on the stone floor nearby. it's a woman with long dark hair in a ponytail similar to buffy's. she looks over at them.
woman: hey.
scene direction: buffy and riley break out of their moment, look at her as she approaches.
scene direction: woman to riley
woman: hey there.
scene direction: woman to buffy
woman: what exactly are you doing with my husband?
scene direction: buffy stares at riley in surprise. he looks a little embarrassed.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: same scene. buffy stares at riley.
buffy: husband?
scene direction: riley nods. buffy looks at the woman.
buffy: wife.
scene direction: the woman nods.
buffy: and ... those aren't code names like big dog or falcon or...
scene direction: buffy the others looking dubious
buffy: i didn't think so.
riley: buffy, meet sam. sam, buffy.
scene direction: sam sincerely
sam: pleasure.
buffy: demon.
scene direction: they all turn to see the demon behind sam. it has gotten back up again. it snarls at them.
scene direction: sam grins
sam: mine.
scene direction: sam approaches the demon and grabs both of its arms, kicks it, takes one arm and hits it.
scene direction: angle on buffy and riley watching, as fighting noises and demon growls continue off-screen.
buffy: she's good.
riley: she's a special one.
scene direction: riley shot of sam punching the demon furiously
buffy: how long have you been married?
riley: four months almost.
buffy: mazel tov. any children?
riley: buffy, i meant to tell you. when the time was right. she caught up to us a hell of a lot faster than i would've guessed possible. she does that.
scene direction: riley shot of sam kicking and punching the demon
buffy: so, you-you guys do this often, you know, the whole ... husband-and-wife tag-team demon fighting thing?
riley: yeah, it's what brought us together. i almost feel sorry for the suvolte.
scene direction: the demon hits sam across the face and she goes down.
riley: but not quite.
scene direction: riley moves forward, picking up a taser(?) from the ground. he catches the demon's arm as it prepares to hit sam, hits it in the stomach with the taser. sam crouches on the ground, kicks the demon back.
scene direction: buffy stands there looking pensive as the other two continue fighting the demon.
scene direction: the demon flings them both off and buffy wakes up, rejoins the fight. sam is holding the demon's arm and kicking it. buffy grabs the demon by its head.
buffy: call this your wedding gift.
scene direction: she twists the head, snapping the demon's neck. it falls to the ground.
scene direction: riley moves forward as if to stop her but sees it's too late. sam looks shocked.
scene direction: buffy panting
buffy: so, guess that's mission accomplished.
scene direction: buffy turns away
scene direction: riley kneels by the demon
riley: she killed it.
sam: oh, honey ...
scene direction: sam putting a hand on his back, panting
sam: that's okay.
scene direction: buffy turns back
buffy: okay? wait ... you guys have been tracking this thing as a couple for two days straight, and you ... did want it dead, right?
scene direction: riley stands up again next to sam. they look at each other nervously.
buffy: oh.
sam: let me guess. captain can-do over here
scene direction: sam pointing her thumb at riley
sam: forgot to mention that this was a homing operation.
scene direction: sam riley looking embarrassed, getting something from his belt
sam: but it's nice to finally meet you, by the way. knife.
scene direction: sam puts out her hand without looking, and riley gives her a large knife. she kneels beside the demon.
buffy: what is a homing operation?
riley: it's my fault. i should have explained.
buffy: that would have saved me some ... trouble.
scene direction: sam slices open the demon's stomach with the knife. thick yellow blood oozes out.
sam: damn.
scene direction: buffy makes a disgusted face. sam stands up.
sam: we're too late. finn ... how could you recruit the slayer without filling her in on the objective?
buffy: that'd be my question.
scene direction: sam teasing
sam: if we weren't under severe time constraints i'd seriously think about ripping you a new one.
scene direction: riley smirking
riley: stand down, soldier.
buffy: he's your boss, too?
scene direction: sam smirking
sam: oh, he wishes. we better regroup. buffy, i hate to impose further, but ... you got a safe house?
buffy: i, i have a house. i-i think it's safe. sometimes you can't even leave.
scene direction: buffy grins. the others look confused.
scene direction: riley to sam
riley: i know the way.
scene direction: riley to buffy
riley: and i'll fill you in. on everything.
scene direction: buffy nods.
scene change: cut to the summers house, foyer, night. buffy enters through the front door, followed by sam and riley.
buffy: sorry the place is such a mess. i haven't had a chance to give it a good cleaning.
scene direction: reveal dawn standing in the living-room doorway, arms folded.
riley: hey.
dawn: agent finn returns.
riley: dawn. geez, look at you. i think you grew a foot and a half.
scene direction: dawn sullen
dawn: a lot can happen in a year.
scene direction: riley chastised
riley: well, it's good to see you.
scene direction: willow and xander appear from the kitchen.
xander: hey, there's the man! life taker, heartbreaker.
scene direction: xander shakes riley's hand
xander: you know, figuratively speaking.
riley: xander, sam. willow...
sam: hi.
scene direction: sam all waving at each other
riley: hi.
scene direction: riley hugs willow
willow: we got your call.
xander: we're here to help. just like old times. except, with you being all big with the married life.
riley: hear you're getting hitched yourself. believe me, you're gonna love it.
scene direction: riley sam smiling at him
willow: congratulations, really, both of you.
scene direction: they all move into the living room. buffy hangs back, and willow goes to her.
scene direction: willow softly
willow: just so you know? i'm prepared to hate this woman any way you want.
scene direction: willow shot of riley and sam talking closely
buffy: thanks, but no. i don't wanna seem all petty.
willow: well, that's the beauty! you can't, but i can. please. let me carry the hate for the both of us.
scene direction: another shot of the finns. they are laughing together, touching each other lightly.
buffy: go nuts.
scene direction: buffy and willow exchange a nod, proceed into the living room. dawn and xander remain standing by the doorway. dawn still has her arms crossed and her expression says that she is still mad at riley.
dawn: so. what brings you back to town after you left suddenly with no word?
scene direction: riley, sam, buffy, and willow sit.
riley: sam and i have been tracking a suvolte demon through central america. killing machine. nearly mature.
sam: yeah, three months old and growing fast.
riley: these things start to kill the minute they're hatched. and leave a real clear trail.
sam: yeah. just follow the villages with nothing in them but body parts.
riley: uh ... dawn, are you sure you wanna be around hearing all this?
sam: oh, come on, finn, she looks all grown-up to me.
scene direction: sam to buffy
sam: that is, if it's all right with you.
buffy: uh, sure, yeah, it's fine.
dawn: so, this demon shredded your guys, and now you're looking for a little payback?
scene direction: sam shakes head
sam: no. it came here to the hellmouth to, to spawn.
scene direction: sam sighs
sam: but we think it already hatched its eggs somewhere.
riley: and the plan was to track it. let the demon take us to its nest.
dawn: and ... now they're gonna hatch a bunch of ... baby demon things?
sam: unless we stop it.
buffy: which means we have to find the nest, and fast, before sunnydale turns into the trouble meat palace.
scene direction: beat. everyone looks at buffy.
buffy: i wish i'd said something else.
xander: okay, so we track down the demon, find the nest, mr. and mrs. finn here make with the killin', and everyone goes home happy.
scene direction: xander sits on the sofa beside sam
xander: but seriously, married man. if forced to choose between a photographer and place settings- buffy: we can't track the demon.
scene direction: xander they look at her
xander: i killed it.
scene direction: xander chipper
xander: so! who's hungry? we got, uh- dawn: ice cubes.
buffy: all you can eat.
sam: buffy? it's good that you killed the suvolte before it killed us.
scene direction: sam to xander
sam: disposable cameras.
xander: di - wah?
sam: yeah, you, you know, little plastic ones, ten bucks a pop. you arrange them like table settings, guests snap photos...
scene direction: buffy looks at them. close shot on riley's hand resting on sam's knee. she puts her own hand over riley's, lacing their fingers together.
sam: ...breaks the ice, and when the wedding's over, you get to take home the pictures.
scene direction: xander grinning
xander: i like it!
scene direction: shot of willow and buffy. buffy stares at the floor while willow makes snide faces at sam.
scene direction: riley and sam smile at xander, turn back to buffy. willow makes an innocent face.
buffy: so, demon eggs. any timetable on when they're gonna hatch?
riley: hatching's not the problem.
sam: we think they're gonna be sold on the black market. there are some foreign military powers that would love to have their own suvolte. you could never train it, but drop it on an urban population...
riley: and it cleanses the area.
dawn: is that a nice way of saying it kills people?
sam: lots of 'em. money's been exchanged. there's a dealer in town, calls himself the, the doctor. willow, you think you can help with a little locating spell?
scene direction: willow quietly
willow: i can't do the magicks.
sam: oh, riley says you're comin' on as one major-league wicca.
willow: i got addicted. the way addicts do.
scene direction: willow exits toward the kitchen. sam looks upset.
riley: two teams. no civilians. i'll, uh ... i'll go out and look for our doctor. you two find that nest.
buffy: me and sam together?
riley: you come across a suvolte nest, you're gonna want backup.
sam: you know, i don't wanna be dragging down the slayer.
scene direction: sam to buffy
sam: you've got speed, and power i can't even- buffy: let's go. xander, are you okay to stay with dawn?
xander: yeah.
riley: i'll check out some bars. willy's, some, uh, crypts that i know.
scene direction: everyone gets up.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. willow sits by the island looking pensive. sam enters.
sam: hey willow. i'm sorry, i think i really ... stepped in it in there.
scene direction: sam willow not looking at her
sam: you know, back in the jungle ... we had not one, but two hard-core shamans working for us ... they were working the dark magicks, and ... got addicted. and now they're gone.
scene direction: sam willow turns to look at her
sam: gone ... as in ... there's nothing left. i've never met anyone with enough strength to quit before.
scene direction: willow continues looking at her, says nothing.
sam: i'm just saying.
scene direction: sam turns and leaves. willow watches her go, smiles a little.
sam voiceover: thanks for letting me tag along.
scene change: cut to the graveyard, night. sam and buffy walk along, still wearing their all-black outfits.
buffy: no problem.
sam: maybe not for you. i gotta tell you, buffy, i'm a little bit intimidated. i mean, patrolling with the real live slayer, you're like ... santa claus, or buddha, or something.
buffy: fat and jolly?
sam: legendary. and it's not just slayer status i'm talking about. it's you.
buffy: riley talks about me?
sam: he didn't say anything for a long time, but i could tell. he was ripped up inside.
buffy: good thing he has you.
sam: more like miraculous. i went down to central america with the peace corps. one night, my entire infirmary got slaughtered by...
scene direction: sam shakes her head
sam: i didn't know what they were. i got saved, quit the corps, joined the squad. my first firefight, i met riley.
scene direction: sam smiling
sam: we started talking, you know, first about tactics, missions, stuff like that. and then about you.
buffy: he thinks ... i let him go.
scene direction: sam stops
sam: do you wish you hadn't.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: i wish things were different. i-i'm not trying to ... i don't ... uh, you know.
scene direction: buffy resumes walking
sam: i didn't mean to put you on the spot, buffy. there's no bad guys in this one. the only thing that could ... help riley work it out was time. lots of time. took him a year to get over you.
buffy: i'm glad he's over me.
sam: so, you seeing anyone new? someone special?
buffy: you know, i just take my time, you know, i don't ... i don't wanna jump right into anything, don't wanna ... you know ... be defined by who i'm with.
sam: yeah, better no guy than the wrong guy, that's for sure.
scene direction: buffy suddenly
buffy: sam. you know what? um, i think we should split up.
scene direction: sam upset
sam: oh, i'm slowing you down. i knew i would, this was just selfish of me.
buffy: no, it's not, uh ... there's this guy, uh, an informant, but he's twitchy. i show up with company, and, and we get nothing.
sam: cool. i'm guessing finn needs me about now.
scene direction: sam looking around
sam: he's probably off somewhere gettin' his ass kicked.
scene direction: sam grinning
sam: you know how wild he gets.
scene direction: sam backing away
sam: don't worry about rye and me, we're good.
scene direction: sam turns and walks off.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: i noticed.
scene direction: buffy walks off in the other direction.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. spike sits on top of a coffin reading a book. the coffin is made up as a couch, has a blanket covering it and a throw-pillow on it. sound of the door slamming open. buffy strides in.
spike: buffy. hey now.
scene direction: spike puts the book down, stands
spike: if i'd-a known you were coming, i'd-a baked a cake.
scene direction: buffy walks over to stand in front of him, pulling off her black gloves.
buffy: i need information.
spike: well, suppose i could be helpful. if the price is right.
scene direction: spike buffy putting gloves down
spike: i'm not sure i'm selling out at double meat palace wages, though.
buffy: i need to find a guy. dealer. calls himself the doctor.
spike: human?
buffy: his traffic isn't.
spike: clock ticking?
buffy: whatever he's doing, he's doing it soon.
scene direction: spike looking her up and down
spike: soon but not now?
scene direction: beat. buffy just looks at him.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: tell me you love me.
scene direction: spike surprised
spike: i love you. you know i do.
scene direction: she takes a couple of steps closer.
buffy: tell me you want me.
scene direction: spike whispers
spike: i always want you. in point of fact- buffy: shut up.
scene direction: buffy moves as if to kiss him, but instead she hooks her hand around his neck and pulls him down onto the coffin-couch.
scene direction: buffy lies down on her back with spike on top of her. she begins unbuttoning his shirt. spike pulls at the fastenings on buffy's bulletproof vest. she stares at his face, pushes the partially unbuttoned shirt down on his shoulders, then uses it to pull him down for a kiss.
scene change: fade to later. buffy and spike lie on the crypt sleeping with some blankets covering them, not touching each other. one of buffy's bare legs is exposed.
scene direction: sound of the door bursting open again. spike stirs, lifts his head to look. buffy looks too, gasps and sits up, holding a blanket over her breasts, pulling it over to cover her bare leg. spike chuckles, props himself up on his elbows.
spike: well, looky here. i don't usually use the word delicious...
scene direction: shot of riley standing there looking at them, large gun in hand.
spike: ...but i've gotta wager this little tableau must sting a bit, eh? me and your former? must kill. what can i say? girl just needs a little monster in her man.
scene direction: buffy stares at the ground looking upset.
riley: that's not why i'm here ... doctor.
scene direction: buffy looks shocked, turns to stare at spike, then back to stare at riley.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: same scene. buffy looks from one man to the other, still holding the blanket against her body.
buffy: oh god.
scene direction: she gets up. spike sighs.
spike: here i thought we'd run you out of town, mate.
scene direction: buffy crouches down, scooping up her clothing, scowling at spike. she goes off somewhere to get dressed.
spike: last time i saw you, if memory serves, you were getting the juice sucked out of you by some undead ladies of very questionable reputation.
scene direction: spike sits up on the coffin, naked with his knees pulled up and open. riley averts his eyes.
spike: now, be a good tin soldier and, uh...
scene direction: spike makes a "go-away" gesture
riley: where are they ... doctor?
spike: where are what, and why do you keep calling me that?
scene direction: spike begins putting on pants
riley: glad to be back in sunnydale. the locals all speak english, and i know who to beat for information. it's all brought me here.
spike: look, crew cut.
scene direction: spike fastening his belt
spike: she's not your bint any more. and if i can speak frankly, she always had a little thing for me, even when she was shagging you.
riley: nice. that's very distracting.
scene direction: riley walks closer
riley: now tell me, before i get unprofessional...
scene direction: riley pointing his gun at spike
riley: ...where are the eggs, spike?
spike: eggs?
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: you're off your nut. it must be those drugs they were keeping you on. i did warn you.
riley: okay. we can do this the hard way, or we can do this the fatal way.
scene direction: riley punches spike in the face, just as buffy reappears, fully dressed.
riley: where are the eggs?
buffy: look, the doctor, it can't be spike.
spike: no need to defend me, luv.
scene direction: buffy punches him in the face as well.
buffy: look, i-it can't be, okay? he-he's too incompetent.
scene direction: buffy spike glaring at her
buffy: it's just spike, riley.
riley: right. deadly ... amoral ...
scene direction: riley spike smirking
riley: opportunistic.
scene direction: riley quietly
riley: or have you forgotten?
scene direction: buffy glares, but has no answer to that. she turns away.
riley: i'm taking this place apart until i find that nest.
spike: over my dead body.
riley: i've seen enough of your dead body for one night, thanks.
scene direction: riley uses the barrel of his shotgun to shove spike aside. as he passes, spike grabs his shoulder.
spike: well, you're not gonna- riley shoves him back. spike stumbles back against a pillar. riley starts down the ladder to the underground part of the crypt.
scene direction: riley os
riley: you coming?
scene direction: buffy looks up, looks at spike. he stares back at her. she follows riley.
scene direction: spike angry
spike: oh, this is ... unconstitutional, is what it is!
scene direction: spike grabbing a shirt, putting it on
spike: here!
scene change: cut to below. riley and buffy reach the ground.
scene direction: spike os
spike: there's nothin' to see down there!
scene direction: buffy hurries after riley as he moves through the underground rooms.
buffy: riley, look, i'm not saying that he's good, okay, i'm just saying that he's not capable of something as- she stops as they round a corner and come upon the demon eggs.
scene direction: the eggs are about the size of beach-balls but brownish-grey and scaly. there are at least ten, possibly more.
scene direction: riley cocks his gun.
scene direction: closer shot of the eggs, surrounded by yellowish goo the same color as the demon's blood.
scene direction: spike runs in, wearing the shirt (unbuttoned).
spike: i can explain.
riley: we're gonna need more weapons. spike screwed up. you didn't keep 'em frozen, did you ... doctor?
spike: you can stop calling me that any time. if i may, the thing of it is, i'm holding these for a friend, who- buffy punches him in the nose again. he falls down on his butt, his nose bloody.
buffy: no more games.
scene direction: spike gets to his feet, angry.
spike: well, that's bloody funny coming from you! no more games?
scene direction: spike buffy rolling her eyes
spike: that's all you've ever done is play me. you keep playing with rules you make up as you like. you know what i am. you've always known. you come to me all the same.
riley: can you shut him up?
buffy: not so far.
scene direction: spike exits.
riley: you better get outta here.
scene direction: buffy backs away. riley stands staring at the eggs.
scene direction: suddenly one of the eggs bursts open and a baby demon pops out, screeching. it looks a bit like a crab or a very large cockroach.
riley: on second thought, stick around.
scene direction: riley tosses his gun to buffy and pulls out the taser. more baby demons pop out of the eggs and move toward them, fast. riley and buffy back away.
buffy: riley, i- riley: aim high, plenty of lead.
buffy: i'm not exactly gun girl.
riley: you wanna live, learn fast.
scene direction: buffy fires the gun randomly. it hits a stack of lp records, shattering them. another shot hits a pillow on the bed; feathers fly. a third shot destroys a lamp.
buffy: these things?
scene direction: buffy uses the gun to club a demon as it flies at her
buffy: never useful.
scene direction: she tosses the gun away. she and riley look around.
scene direction: several of the babies are scurrying across the ceiling.
riley: we have to pull out.
scene direction: one demon falls onto riley's shoulder. he grabs at it, pries it off. he and buffy begin to run for the exit. the baby demons pursue.
scene direction: buffy looks around. the baby demons are crawling across every bit of ceiling and wall. she runs for the ladder.
scene change: cut to above. buffy emerges as riley is lying on the floor just next to the opening to below.
riley: we need a way to contain these things- buffy: riley!
scene direction: buffy grabs riley's belt, detaches it. there are several grenades on it. she pulls the pin on one, and drops the entire belt down into the hole.
riley: get down!
scene direction: buffy lies down on top of riley, shielding him.
scene direction: shot of the belt lying by the base of the ladder as the baby demons move around and past it.
scene direction: wide shot of the underground part of the crypt as the grenades go off. fire bursts across the cavern and engulfs the eggs.
scene direction: wide shot of the above as a fireball shoots up from the opening, while buffy and riley lie on the floor cringing.
scene direction: the fire subsides and buffy lifts her head. she and riley are both panting. she lies fully on top of him.
anya voiceover: you know, if you love riley finn so much, maybe you should just marry him.
scene change: cut to close shot of xander.
xander: he's taken. and that's not the point.
scene change: cut to wider shot. we see xander sitting on the edge of the bathtub and anya sitting beside him on the closed toilet. faint sounds of angry voices in background.
anya: so you think that their marriage is better than ours, is that it?
xander: no! but granted, i have a hard time imagining nick and nora fury hiding out from their own relatives in the bathroom.
scene direction: sound of crashing and banging from outside. they both look toward the door in alarm.
scene direction: xander sighs
xander: and i have no idea what riley and mrs. riley's wedding was like.
anya: well, you haven't shut up about them.
xander: well, they have a great marriage! and it bummed buffy out, but i can see it. and anya ... i really have no clue what their wedding was like.
anya: so our wedding...
scene direction: anya xander nodding
anya: ...is not our marriage.
scene direction: anya smiles
xander: separate things. one fills me with a dread akin to public speaking engagements.
anya: and that would be the wedding.
xander: which will be over soon.
anya: but our marriage...
xander: that lasts forever.
scene direction: anya smiles, looking relieved.
anya: ah, well. that works out nicely, then.
scene direction: she leans over to kiss xander. another loud crash from the apartment. they both listen, looking unperturbed.
scene change: cut to exterior of the magic shop, night. buffy and riley emerge onto the street, walk along the sidewalk.
buffy: so, are you and sam headed back to central america? or, is that classified?
riley: nepal.
buffy: sounds fun.
riley: i'll send you a postcard.
scene direction: they both stop walking and speak at the same time.
riley: buffy- buffy: riley- riley: by mission parameters i'm done here. but i have authorization to take the doctor out.
scene direction: riley pause
riley: do you want me to do that?
scene direction: buffy shocked
buffy: do i want you to...
scene direction: buffy looks away
buffy: how can you ask me ... i'm sleeping with hi-him.
scene direction: buffy carefully
buffy: i'm sleeping with spike.
riley: i had actually noticed that.
buffy: and then you come back ... and did you wait until your life was absolutely perfect and then send that demon here so you could throw it in my face?
riley: look ... you think this was easy for me?
buffy: yeah! i think it was a rollicking adventure, fun for the whole family.
riley: i was terrified about seeing you again.
buffy: well, i'm sure my incredible patheticness softened the blow for you.
scene direction: riley looks annoyed, fidgets a bit.
riley: i don't know what you're talking about.
buffy: riley, please don't patronize- riley: hey! you want me to say that i liked seeing you in bed with that idiot? or that blinding orange is your very best color? or that that ... burger smell is appealing?
scene direction: buffy upset
buffy: you smelled the smell?
riley: buffy, none of that means anything. it doesn't touch you. you're still the first woman i ever loved ... and the strongest woman i've ever known. and i'm not advertising this to the missus ... but you're still quite the hottie.
buffy: you know, it goes away after many bathings.
scene direction: riley laughs
riley: this isn't about who's on top. i know how lucky i am right now. i love my work, and i love my wife.
buffy: i know. and i kinda love her too.
riley: so you're not in the greatest place right now. and maybe i made it worse.
buffy: no.
riley: wheel never stops turning, buffy. you're up, you're down ... it doesn't change what you are. and you are a hell of a woman.
scene direction: buffy deep breath
buffy: riley, that night...
scene direction: buffy riley just looking at her
buffy: i never got the chance ... to tell you ... how sorry i was. about what happened between us.
riley: and you never have to.
scene direction: the door to the magic shop opens again and sam and xander emerge, followed by dawn and willow.
sam: well, the wedding itself was held in a military chopper just before a hairy night drop into hostile territory.
xander: huh! and just curious, what's a chopper rental run these days?
scene direction: riley and buffy exchange an amused look.
sam: oh, well, actually, we commandeered it from a local guerilla squad, so ... cheap!
xander: oh!
sam: yeah.
scene direction: the others join riley and buffy where they're standing.
scene direction: sam to willow
sam: you have my email, you promise you'll keep in touch?
willow: you won't get traced? i don't wanna lead the bad guys to your location by mistake.
scene direction: sam and riley smile at each other.
sam: our line's secure.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: oh, huh, duh, of course it is! i keep thinking of you like regular people, but no, you're not.
sam: oh, right, like demon-hunting is all exotic to a girl from sunnydale.
scene direction: dawn confronts riley as we see sam hugging willow and xander in background.
dawn: so you gonna say goodbye this time, or just ... split all secret-agenty like last time?
scene direction: dawn sound of a helicopter
riley: depends. i warrant a hug?
scene direction: dawn doesn't smile, but she steps forward and hugs riley. then he pulls back to look at her face.
riley: goodbye, dawn.
dawn: i thought it would suck less this time. it doesn't.
scene direction: riley smiles fondly at her.
sam: it was really nice meeting you all.
scene direction: sam taps riley on the shoulder, moves away
sam: you ready for nepal, agent?
scene direction: riley to xander
riley: soldier.
scene direction: riley follows sam onto the street. the helicopter noise is louder and we see its lights shining on the group.
scene direction: riley and sam move a bit away from the others.
scene direction: riley to sam
riley: fire-fights, bug hunts, big body counts ... yeah, i could use a break.
scene direction: a thin wire drops down from the copter. riley attaches it to his belt. he and sam put their arms around each other, and riley tugs on the line to signal the copter.
scene direction: long shot of the two of them rising into the air as the others stand watching. buffy stands a little ways off from the others. willow waves.
willow: bye!
xander: bye! bye riley! bye sam!
scene direction: the helicopter moves away with riley and sam still dangling from it.
scene direction: angle on the others watching. dawn and xander turn and walk off left, out of shot. willow moves right, over to buffy, still waving.
willow: what a bitch.
scene direction: willow turns and follows xander and dawn away. buffy watches her go, then looks back up at the departing helicopter, pensive.
scene change: fade to spike's crypt. spike stands there looking at the mess. his furniture and possessions, bits of demon, all scattered around everywhere, burnt and charred. he nudges a bit of rubble with his foot, sighs, stares at the floor.
scene direction: buffy appears, stops a little ways off. spike doesn't look at her.
spike: so she's back. thought you'd be off snogging with soldier-boy.
buffy: he's gone.
scene direction: spike looks at her
spike: so, you come for a bit of cold comfort?
scene direction: spike sighs, gestures
spike: the bed's a bit blown up, but then, that was never our- buffy: i'm not here to- she breaks off. spike just looks at her.
buffy: and i'm not here to bust your chops about your stupid scheme, either. that's just you. i should have remembered.
spike: so this is worse then, is it, this is you telling me- buffy: it's over.
scene direction: spike smiles, moves closer to her
spike: i've memorized this tune, luv. think i have the sheet music. doesn't change what you want.
buffy: i know that.
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: i do want you.
scene direction: buffy spike looking surprised
buffy: being with you ... makes things ... simpler. for a little while.
spike: i don't call five hours straight a little while.
buffy: i'm using you.
scene direction: he stares at her.
buffy: i can't love you. i'm just ... being weak, and selfish...
scene direction: spike moves even closer
spike: really not complaining here.
buffy: ...and it's killing me.
scene direction: spike frowns.
buffy: i have to be strong about this.
scene direction: he continues staring at her.
buffy: i'm sorry ... william.
scene direction: she turns and walks off, leaving spike looking stricken.
scene change: cut to above. buffy walks out of the crypt into sunlight.
scene direction: blackout 