scene direction: open in spike's crypt. sound of thumping. pan across the neatly made bed. sound of panting, more thumping. sound of buffy moaning. pan across the various furniture in the crypt, candles burning on many surfaces, magazines scattered across the floor. banging and moaning noises continue, sound of crashing and breaking. pan across spike's leather jacket and red duster lying on the floor. moaning noises trail off to heavy breathing.
scene direction: pan more and discover buffy and spike lying side-by-side on top of a pile of oriental rugs, with another rug strategically draped over their bodies.
scene direction: buffy panting
buffy: uh ... we missed the bed again.
scene direction: spike looks toward the bed
spike: lucky for the bed.
scene direction: buffy continues panting, lifts herself up on her elbows and looks at the rug covering her body.
buffy: is this a new rug?
spike: mm...no. just looks different when you're under it.
scene direction: buffy laughs a little, then looks around.
buffy: you know, this place is okay for a hole in the ground. you fixed it up.
spike: well, i ate a decorator once. maybe something stuck.
buffy: i've been thinking about doing something to my room.
scene direction: spike moving closer to her
spike: yeah?
buffy: yeah, i think the new kids on the block posters are starting to date me.
scene direction: spike chuckles
spike: well, if you want, i can...
scene direction: spike stops, looks at buffy in surprise.
spike: are we having a conversation?
buffy: what? no! no.
scene direction: buffy pause
buffy: maybe.
spike: hmm.
buffy: what?
spike: well, isn't this usually the part where you ... kick me in the head and run out, virtue fluttering?
buffy: that's the plan ...
scene direction: buffy embarrassed
buffy: ...soon as my legs start working.
scene direction: spike grins, leans his forehead against buffy's arm, then lifts his head and begins running his finger up and down her arm.
scene direction: spike whispers
spike: you were amazing.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: you got the job done yourself.
spike: i was just trying to keep up. the things you do ...
scene direction: spike buffy looks embarrassed. spike smirks
spike: ...the way you make it hurt in all the wrong places. i've never been with such an animal.
scene direction: buffy gives a little gasp, jerks her arm away. spike looks surprised.
buffy: i'm not an animal.
spike: you wanna see the bite marks?
buffy: you know, it's late, i-i should ... get home before dawn goes to sleep.
scene direction: buffy starts looking around under the rug. spike sighs and lies back.
spike: and she's off.
scene direction: buffy disappears completely underneath the rug.
scene direction: buffy muffled
buffy: have you seen my underwear?
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: what is this to you? this thing we have.
scene direction: buffy muffled
buffy: we don't have a ... thing, we have ... this.
scene direction: buffy head reappears
buffy: that's all.
scene direction: she pulls herself up on her elbows again. spike does the same.
spike: do you even like me?
scene direction: beat. buffy stares at spike. he just waits.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: sometimes.
scene direction: buffy looks away
spike: but you like what i do to you.
scene direction: buffy still doesn't look at him.
scene direction: after a moment spike turns and reaches for something behind him.
scene direction: jingling noise. buffy looks up, and her eyes widen.
scene direction: spike holds up a pair of handcuffs.
spike: do you trust me?
buffy: never.
scene change: cut to a basement somewhere. jonathan and andrew stand looking at a bunch of boxes on a table. jonathan pulls out a record - frampton comes alive!
scene direction: andrew looks over, grabs the record away from jonathan.
andrew: how can i trust you not to touch my stuff?
scene direction: we see warren in the background, sitting at a desk doing something.
andrew: actually living with supervillains was not part of the deal.
scene direction: jonathan looking in the boxes
jonathan: we're on the lam, moron, it's not like we have a choice.
andrew: this sucks. couldn't we have at least gotten a lair with a view?
scene direction: jonathan removes his magic bone from a box
jonathan: stop whining! get your sissy crap out of the way.
scene direction: jonathan shoves a box onto the floor.
andrew: hey, quit it!
scene direction: andrew grabs at jonathan. jonathan points his magic bone at andrew and makes hand-gestures.
andrew: don't you curse me!
scene direction: andrew grabs for the bone
jonathan: hey, my bone!
andrew: ow!
scene direction: they grapple, hitting each other and grunting.
scene direction: warren hears the commotion and rolls his eyes.
warren: hey!
scene direction: the others stop fighting.
warren: when you girls are done touching each other, the cerebral dampener's ready to be charged.
andrew: cool.
scene direction: jonathan puts down his bone, and he and andrew walk over to the desk.
scene direction: we see a golf-ball-sized silvery ball on the desk. warren has put on a pair of red-tinted glasses. the other two put on similar glasses.
jonathan: got the thing?
scene direction: andrew takes out a plastic baggie
andrew: musk gland of a homja-maleev demon.
scene direction: andrew opens the bag and they all react to the smell, making faces.
scene direction: andrew strained
andrew: fresh.
scene direction: he coughs, takes it out of the bag and hands it to jonathan.
jonathan: all right. stand back.
scene direction: warren gets up, and the other two move back a bit.
scene direction: jonathan holds the musk gland in one hand, holds a vial in the other. he uses his teeth to remove the vial's cap, then spits it at andrew.
scene direction: close on jonathan's hands as he sprinkles yellow powder from the vial onto the musk gland.
jonathan: doma voluntatem, libera cupidinem, erumpe, ignem, excita.
scene direction: light suffuses the musk gland, then transforms it into a stream of light and smoke that shoots down to the silver ball, making it glow briefly.
scene direction: jonathan's hand smokes slightly.
jonathan: okay ... ow!
scene direction: warren reaches over and grabs the silver ball.
warren: gentlemen, the cerebral dampener ... is online.
scene direction: warren removes his glasses
warren: and with this baby, we can make any woman we desire our willing sex slave.
scene direction: the others smile tentatively.
scene direction: warren grinning
warren: i know just where to start.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: interior of the doublemeat palace, day. buffy and coworker gina are working the counter. buffy hands a bag of food to a customer.
buffy: double meat is double sweet. enjoy!
customer: thank you.
scene direction: the customer takes the food and leaves as gina gives buffy a strange look.
scene direction: buffy defensive
buffy: just something i'm trying.
scene direction: tara comes up to the counter.
tara: hey, sorry i'm late.
buffy: oh, time has no meaning here. gina, i'm taking a break.
scene direction: buffy takes her hat off, starts to move off. tara gives gina a fake smile and follows buffy.
scene change: cut to the employee lounge. close on the wall bearing motivational posters reading "dedication" and "productivity".
scene direction: pan over to tara sitting in a chair at a long table. behind her we see more posters - "cooperation" and "motivation."
scene direction: buffy comes over with a paper cup.
tara: i have this sudden urge to dedicate my productive cooperation.
scene direction: buffy hands her the cup of soda.
buffy: well, if you close your eyes and repeatedly smash yourself in the head with frozen meat, it'll go away.
scene direction: buffy sits
buffy: eventually. i'm hoping.
scene direction: buffy fiddles with her hands nervously, rubbing her wrists.
buffy: thanks for coming by.
scene direction: tara worried
tara: is it bad?
buffy: i was sort of hoping you could tell me.
tara: i knew this was gonna happen. what did willow do now? did she ... she hurt anyone?
buffy: wha... uh, no, no, um... ta-tara, this isn't about willow.
tara: i-i thought that's why you didn't want to meet at the house.
buffy: uh, sorry, it's, um ... willow's fine, uh, she, she's been doing really well. you'd be proud of her.
tara: good, that's ... that's good.
scene direction: tara pause
tara: so, so what do you want to talk about?
scene direction: buffy continues rubbing her wrists.
buffy: i-it's spike.
scene direction: buffy tara looking confused
buffy: he can hurt me.
scene direction: close shot on buffy's hands as she continues rubbing her wrists. suddenly she realizes it, and quickly moves her hands under the table.
buffy: without his head exploding.
tara: oh my god. hi-his chip stopped working?
buffy: no, it still works. just not on me.
scene direction: buffy nervous
buffy: i-i need to know about the spell. the one that ... brought me back. i, i'd ask willow, but...
scene direction: tara getting it
tara: you think it's you.
buffy: i don't know. i feel ... different. there are things...
scene direction: she seems about to make a confession. tara looks at her, waiting. buffy chickens out.
buffy: i-i think ... maybe ... i came back wrong.
scene direction: tara firmly
tara: no, buffy, that's n-not ... no. you didn't.
buffy: can you check out the spell? just see if there's something that ... could you just check? please?
scene change: cut to exterior city street, night. the geek trio's van is parked at the edge of an alley.
scene change: cut to inside the van. close shot on a video monitor showing snow. the snow clears, revealing a bar scene.
scene direction: jonathan os
jonathan: right there! that's got it.
scene direction: we see jonathan sitting in front of the monitor, wearing a headset.
jonathan: mad dog two to mad dog one.
scene direction: we see andrew sitting beside jonathan, also wearing a headset.
andrew: i thought i was mad dog two.
scene direction: jonathan gives him a look, rolls his eyes.
jonathan: mad dog *three* to mad dog one.
scene change: cut to interior of the restaurant. warren stands by the door, wearing a suit and tie.
scene direction: jonathan voiceover over earpiece
jonathan voiceover: signal's coming in strong and clear. over.
scene direction: warren puts a hand to his ear
warren: roger that. beginning preliminary sweep.
scene direction: warren looks around; we can see the tiny earpiece in his ear. he fiddles with his tie.
scene direction: close shot on the tie. in the middle of it we see a tiny camera.
scene change: cut to the van. the monitor shows the view jiggling a little as warren fiddles with the tie. the other two geeks watch.
scene direction: cut back to the restaurant. warren puts hands in pockets and begins strolling around. the place is full of people, some sitting in booths, some sitting at the bar, talking, drinking, etc.
scene direction: warren quietly
warren: keep your potatoes peeled for the slayer. i don't want any surprises.
scene change: cut to the van.
andrew: we can really have anyone we want.
jonathan: it's like candy.
andrew: juicy, pulsating candy.
jonathan: oh! oh, the one with the neck! put the whammy on the neck!
scene direction: the screen shows a variety of women sitting and walking.
andrew: no! the redhead! i want the redhead!
scene direction: cut back to the restaurant as the redhead walks past warren.
scene direction: jonathan over earpiece
jonathan: the redhead's too tall.
scene direction: andrew over earpiece
andrew: so get a step ladder. no, no, ow!
scene direction: sounds of scuffling. warren ignores them, looking around, spotting something.
scene direction: long shot of katrina (warren's ex-girlfriend from "i was made to love you") sitting at a table, drinking wine.
scene direction: andrew over earpiece
andrew: get off of me!
scene direction: jonathan over earpiece
jonathan: take it back!
scene direction: warren smiling
warren: target acquired.
scene change: cut to the van. jonathan has andrew in a head-lock. they both stop and look at the monitor.
jonathan: what?
scene change: cut to the restaurant.
warren: initiating contact.
scene direction: warren begins walking forward
scene change: cut to the van. the other two look at the monitor and see katrina as warren moves toward her.
jonathan: the brunette?
andrew: oh, she's kinda cute --
scene direction: andrew jonathan tightens his hold
andrew: ow!
scene direction: andrew looking up at the screen
andrew: oh, no, go for the leather skirt!
scene direction: on the monitor, a girl in a leather skirt walks past warren. we get a very close look at her cleavage.
andrew: oh, bazoombas!
scene direction: cut back to the restaurant. warren checks out the cleavage as the girl walks past him.
scene direction: andrew over earpiece
andrew: go for the one with the bazoombas!
scene direction: jonathan over earpiece
jonathan: yeah, go for the one with the bazoombas.
scene direction: warren continues looking at katrina. in the earpiece, the other two begin chanting "bazoomba, bazoomba."
scene direction: warren resumes walking toward katrina. as he walks, he removes the earpiece and drops it into a martini glass on another table. it sizzles as it shorts out.
scene change: cut to the van. andrew and jonathan scream as their headsets fill with loud feedback. they let go of each other and grab at their ears.
scene direction: cut back to the restaurant. warren slides into the chair beside katrina, who has her head turned away from him.
warren: so how did you get so beautiful?
scene direction: katrina laughs sarcastically.
katrina: okay, does that line usually work...?
scene direction: she turns and sees warren, stops smiling.
katrina: what the hell are you doing here?
warren: it's nice to see you again too, katrina.
katrina: yeah, it's the seeing you part that's throwing me here, warren, because i thought i was pretty clear with the never wanting that to happen again.
warren: never's a long time, baby.
scene direction: warren holds up a folded bill between his fingers, gesturing to the bartender.
katrina: apparently not long enough.
warren: oh, you're not still sore about that thing, are you?
scene direction: the bartender tries to refill katrina's glass from the bottle of wine, but she puts her hand over the glass to stop him.
katrina: what *thing* would that be exactly? what, the wind-up slut you tinkered together? or when little miss nuts and bolts tried to choke me to death?
warren: okay, so i've made a few mistakes.
katrina: no. no, i did. for ever lowering myself to be with a jerk like you.
scene direction: she gets up. warren stands too, stopping her.
warren: don't say that.
katrina: well, what did you expect, to just ... waltz in here and sweep me off my feet with your cheesy lines and fancy suit?
warren: no, i ju- i just thought ... we could talk. i thought maybe we could work things out.
katrina: there's nothing to work out. what you did was sick. and just looking at you makes me want to vomit.
scene direction: katrina gathering up her purse
scene direction: warren reaching into his jacket pocket
warren: you sure about that?
scene direction: warren puts on his red sunglasses
katrina: yes, god yes, i'm sure.
scene direction: warren reaches into another pocket, pulls out the cerebral dampener and opens his hand. the device flashes with red and yellow sparkly light, then quickly subsides. katrina looks at it in surprise.
scene direction: warren puts the device back into his pocket. katrina looks at him with an odd expression.
katrina: i love you, master.
scene direction: warren grins, takes off the sunglasses.
warren: i love you, too, baby.
scene change: cut to interior summers house, night. angle on the front door from the living room. soft music. buffy enters from outside.
scene direction: buffy calls
buffy: i'm home! who wants to help scrape the grease off my...
scene direction: she puts down her jacket and looks into the living room, looks shocked.
scene direction: buffy horrified
buffy: is there singing?!
scene change: cut to wider shot. xander and dawn are dancing in the middle of the room, while anya and willow sit on the sofa watching.
buffy: are we singing again?
xander: nope, just the dancing.
anya: we're teaching dawn perfectly synchronized dance steps for the wedding reception.
scene direction: xander whirls dawn around into a dip. she giggles delightedly.
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: wanna go for a spin?
buffy: uh, think i'm heading more towards an ungainly collapse.
scene direction: buffy walks over to sit between anya and willow.
willow: aw, rough day?
buffy: kinda.
xander: you've been going at it too hard, buffy. we hardly ever see you, what with slinging the double meat and pounding the big evil.
anya: you are looking a little pounded.
scene direction: anya buffy looks insulted
anya: just around the eyes.
willow: hey, we're thinking of heading to the bronze later. wanna come, get all unwindy?
xander: tall glasses of frosty relaxation on me. nectar of the working man.
buffy: no, thanks. i think i'll stay here with dawn.
scene direction: buffy sound of a car horn honking outside
buffy: curl up on the couch with a big bowl of popcorn and-
scene direction: dawn moves toward the door, picks up her jacket.
buffy: ...listen to the cars honk?
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: where are you going?
dawn: i'm ... sleeping over at janice's?
buffy: and i'm falling for that again because of the surprise lobotomy?
willow: it's okay, i checked it out. janice's mom is picking her up.
buffy: oh.
dawn: i didn't think you'd care. you're never home, so...
scene direction: buffy looks contrite, gets up and goes over to dawn.
buffy: i know. i'm sorry. you know, but i, i'm here now. all visible and everything. couldn't you just stay at janice's another night?
dawn: her mom's cooking mexican. she's gonna teach me how to make real tortillas.
scene direction: dawn softly
dawn: not like i knew you'd be around.
scene direction: the horn honks again. dawn grabs her stuff and leaves as buffy stands there looking unhappy.
scene direction: the door closes, and buffy turns to her friends, giving a small brave smile.
buffy: frosty nectar. now please.
scene direction: sound of a champagne cork popping.
scene change: cut to close shot on warren in the new geek lair. he holds up a glass that is being filled.
warren: thank you, baby.
scene direction: we see katrina, now wearing a black-and-white french-maid outfit, filling andrew's glass from the bottle of champagne. warren sits nearby as the others are standing.
katrina: my pleasure, master.
andrew: that is so cool.
scene direction: katrina finishes filling andrew's glass and steps back, staring ahead of her with a blank expression.
scene direction: we see jonathan holding his own glass, toying with the cerebral dampener.
jonathan: i really could've used one of these in high school.
warren: gentlemen? to crime.
scene direction: warren holds up his glass. the others hold theirs up too. katrina continues staring blankly.
andrew and jonathan: crime!
scene direction: they all drink. andrew coughs and makes a face.
andrew: crime tastes funny.
jonathan: wow.
scene direction: jonathan circling around katrina, checking her out
jonathan: i still think i would have gone with the bazoombas, but...
scene direction: shot of warren watching. jonathan goes around behind katrina and comes around the other side, next to andrew.
jonathan: ...wow.
andrew: yeah, she's ... really cute.
scene direction: warren offended
warren: cute?
scene direction: warren jumps up, goes to katrina's other side, staring at her.
warren: look at her, man! the
scene direction: warren pointing
warren: the shape of her lips. the smooth, silky skin. the way her nose-
scene direction: warren goofy laugh
warren: the way her nose crinkles when she laughs...
scene direction: warren softly
warren: she's perfect.
scene direction: andrew and jonathan look at each other and giggle nervously.
jonathan: yeah.
andrew: she's totally hot.
scene direction: katrina still staring ahead blankly
katrina: so are you, master.
scene direction: andrew surprised
andrew: you think so?
katrina: oh yes, master.
scene direction: andrew looks taken aback, but excited. jonathan smiles nervously.
jonathan: okay ... so ... how do we ... you know.
andrew: who gets to...
warren: i do.
scene direction: warren walks around to the side of katrina closer the other two, and drapes an arm over her shoulders.
andrew: that's not fair.
jonathan: dude, you didn't call it.
warren: oh, i don't have to call it, sparky. she's mine. but don't worry.
scene direction: warren takes the champagne bottle from katrina and gives it to jonathan
warren: you can play with her all you want ... after i'm done with her.
scene direction: the other two look uncomfortable as warren and katrina walk off. jonathan and andrew lift their glasses simultaneously and take another sip. sound of a door closing. andrew coughs from the champagne.
scene change: cut to another room. it's very red - red sheets on the bed, red lava lamp, red wall-coverings.
scene direction: katrina shoves warren across the room and pushes him up against the wall hard, begins kissing him passionately. he kisses her back.
warren: i missed you so much. you never should have left me.
scene direction: warren kiss
warren: say it.
scene direction: katrina mechanically
katrina: i never should have left you, master.
scene direction: katrina more kissing
warren: tell me you love me.
katrina: i love you, master.
scene direction: more kissing. katrina keeps her eyes open and her same blank expression while kissing.
warren: again.
katrina: i love you, master.
scene direction: katrina more kissing
warren: i love you too, baby.
scene direction: warren shrugs
warren: get on your knees.
katrina: yes, warren.
scene direction: she kneels down, out of shot. warren looks excited for a moment, then pauses.
warren: wait, what'd you just say?
scene direction: shot of katrina kneeling, looking up at him. warren's hand is on the back of her head.
katrina: i said yes, war-
scene direction: she pauses in mid-word, looks confused. warren looks alarmed.
scene direction: katrina looks at warren's hand on her head, shoves it away, looks down at her outfit, looks outraged.
katrina: what the f-
scene change: cut to the other room. jonathan and andrew are sparring with plastic light-up star wars lightsabers. in background, warren flies into shot, falling to the floor as if pushed. katrina comes up behind him, throwing her french-maid hat at him. the others stop and stare.
scene direction: katrina furious
katrina: what did you do to me?!
warren: get the dampener!
scene direction: jonathan and andrew quickly drop their toys and rush around looking for the dampener.
katrina: who the hell are you?
andrew: um, your masters?
katrina: my what?!
jonathan: where'd you put it?!
andrew: you had it last!
scene direction: sound of the other two arguing continues as warren stands up and katrina confronts him.
katrina: are you kidding me?!
warren: get the dampener!
katrina: you were gonna share me with these two dorks?!
scene direction: katrina warren putting on his red sunglasses
andrew: hey! we're supervillains!
scene direction: andrew and jonathan rush over. andrew wears his sunglasses and holds the dampener.
andrew: call us "master!"
scene direction: andrew thrusts his hand out with the dampener on his palm. jonathan isn't wearing his sunglasses - he puts his hands quickly over his eyes.
jonathan: wait!
scene direction: the dampener flashes briefly, weakly, and nothing. katrina just stares at it.
andrew: aw, crap.
jonathan: it's out of juice!
scene direction: katrina to warren
katrina: is that what you used on me?! oh my god! first the skankbot and now this?! what is wrong with you!
scene direction: she shoves warren in the chest.
warren: i just, i wanted us to be together!
katrina: there is no us, warren! get that through your big meaty head! i am not your girlfriend anymore!
jonathan: she's your ex?
andrew: dude, that is messed up.
katrina: oh, you think?
scene direction: katrina walking toward the other two
katrina: you bunch of little boys, playing at being men.
scene direction: katrina yelling
katrina: well, this is not some fantasy, it's not a game, you freaks! it's rape!
scene direction: jonathan stunned
jonathan: what?
andrew: no ... we didn't-
scene direction: katrina crying, and still angry
katrina: you're all sick.
scene direction: katrina points at warren
katrina: and i'm going to make sure you get locked up for this. and then we'll see how you like getting raped.
scene direction: she turns to walk off.
warren: stop her!
scene direction: andrew and jonathan each grab an arm. katrina fights back.
katrina: get off me!
scene direction: she elbows andrew in the face, knees jonathan in the groin. they both go down.
scene direction: warren rushes over as katrina starts up the stairs. he grabs her shoulder but she pushes him off. he grabs her again. she rakes her fingernails down his face, drawing blood.
scene direction: warren yells in pain, but knocks katrina down, grabs the champagne bottle and hits her over the head with it. she falls down on the stairs and stops moving.
scene direction: warren steps back down onto the floor.
warren: charge the cerebral dampener.
scene direction: jonathan comes over to look. shot of katrina's unmoving body lying across the stairs. andrew comes up behind jonathan and they both stare.
scene direction: jonathan shaking his head
jonathan: warren...
warren: charge the dampener! andrew ... get her up.
scene direction: andrew goes past warren and up the stairs to look at katrina.
warren: we'll give her another dose.
scene direction: warren wiping his mouth with his sleeve
warren: a strong one.
scene direction: jonathan hasn't moved, still staring.
warren: everything's all right. everything's ... gonna be all right.
scene direction: close on katrina's head as andrew touches it and brings his hand away, covered in blood.
andrew: i don't think so.
scene direction: he turns to look at the others.
andrew: she's dead.
scene direction: jonathan looks horrified.
scene direction: close on warren as it sinks in.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. andrew sits on the stairs holding a kleenex to his mouth.
andrew: oh god, oh god, oh god.
scene direction: we see warren bending over katrina, examining her.
warren: her neck. it just...
scene direction: warren looks back at jonathan
scene direction: jonathan shaking his head
jonathan: no, that's ... not...
scene direction: warren stands, goes down the stairs to where jonathan is.
jonathan: this isn't happening.
warren: i just, i gotta ... i gotta, lemme think.
scene direction: andrew continues whimpering softly and saying "oh god".
scene direction: jonathan tearful
jonathan: what did you do? what the hell did you do?!
scene direction: jonathan grabs warren by his shirt, but warren grabs jonathan back and shoves him up against the wall.
warren: *we* did this. me, and andrew, and you. it's on all of us.
andrew: ...oh god oh god oh god...
warren: shut up!
scene direction: andrew stops talking but begins to cry quietly.
scene direction: warren lets go of jonathan
warren: we, uh, we have to get ... we have to get r-rid of it.
jonathan: how?
warren: uh, uh, may-maybe a spell. can you teleport it out of here?
scene direction: jonathan looking at the body
jonathan: no, she's ...
scene direction: jonathan upset
jonathan: it's too big.
warren: andrew.
scene direction: andrew doesn't respond, still staring at the body.
warren: andrew!
andrew: what?
warren: is there any ... thing that you can, uh, summon, something that...
scene direction: warren winces, wipes his mouth
warren: something that can devour that much?
andrew: maybe a jarvlen flesh eater, but ... they're hard to control. it'd go for us, too.
scene direction: jonathan upset
jonathan: oh, well that's it, man. we're screwed.
warren: no, we just have to stay calm.
jonathan: tell that to your girlfriend!
warren: ex-girlfriend!
jonathan: it doesn't matter! there's a link. you knew her, so there's a link. you don't think buffy'll be able to put that together? that's what she does, she'll figure it out!
andrew: it was an accident. maybe if we turn ourselves in-
warren: no.
jonathan: he's right. if we go to the police now-
warren: i'm not going to jail.
jonathan: we can't hide this! sooner or later, the slayer's gonna find out she's dead.
scene direction: warren rubbing his chin, thoughtfully
warren: well, then maybe it should be sooner.
jonathan: are you insane?
warren: listen to me.
jonathan: no!
warren: listen!
scene direction: warren more quietly
warren: we have two problems. the body, and the slayer. well, what if there was a way that we could take care of them both ... with one big stone.
scene direction: andrew stares at warren, not getting it. jonathan stares at katrina. warren nods, looks from one to the other.
willow voiceover: what are they doing?
scene change: cut to the bronze. willow sits beside buffy, staring in horror.
scene direction: shot of xander and anya on the dance floor, swing-dancing. the music is retro swing-style. xander and anya are really into it, having fun.
willow: we're not going to have to do that at the wedding, are we? 'cause there's this last thread of dignity i've been desperately clinging to.
buffy: you're still doing okay, right?
willow: yeah. you know. some days are harder than the really hard days. it's easier like this, though, when i'm not alone.
scene direction: buffy contrite
buffy: i'm sorry i haven't been around that much.
willow: no, that's not -- it's okay. we know you've been all tied up.
scene direction: buffy startles at this, looking guilty.
buffy: what?
willow: with your job, and the slaying.
scene direction: buffy nods, relieved.
scene direction: xander and anya come over.
xander: hey, i see sitting where there should be dancing.
anya: come share in the joy of our groove thang.
willow: and despite that, i succumb to the beat.
scene direction: willow getting up
buffy: i think i'll catch the next soul train out.
xander: you sure?
buffy: oh, yeah, you know,
scene direction: buffy holding up her empty plastic cup
buffy: glass all the way empty. more nectar required.
xander: cool, well, shimmy on out when you're done lubricating.
scene direction: buffy smiles widely and watches the others go out onto the dance floor. they begin to dance, having lots of fun.
scene direction: buffy's smile slowly fades and she looks pensive.
scene change: cut to buffy walking over to the bar. she puts her empty cup on the bar and waits for the bartender a moment, then changes her mind, turns and walks away, leaving the cup behind. by the way, she is wearing a white sleeveless blouse and a short lacy black skirt.
scene direction: buffy goes to the stairs and begins climbing toward the balcony. the swing music fades away to a slower, sad piece.
scene direction: the balcony is basically deserted. buffy leans on the railing and looks down. shot of the dance floor full of happy dancing people, including the scoobies.
scene direction: buffy watches them, with a sad smile.
scene direction: spike o.s.
spike: you see ... you try to be with them...
scene direction: spike walks up behind buffy.
spike: ...but you always end up in the dark ...
scene direction: spike whispering in her ear
spike: ...with me.
scene direction: he moves up right behind buffy, looks where she's looking. shot of the scoobies from buffy's pov.
spike: what would they think of you ... if they found out ... all the things you've done?
scene direction: he puts his hand on her bare shoulder and strokes slowly down her arm.
spike: if they knew ... who you really were?
scene direction: his hand moves down to her elbow and then farther down, out of shot.
scene direction: close on buffy's face.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: don't.
spike: stop me.
scene direction: close on spike's hand as it travels down buffy's thigh.
scene direction: close on buffy's face as she closes her eyes.
scene direction: close on spike's hand pulling her skirt up.
scene direction: close on buffy's face as she breathes heavily in pleasure.
scene direction: close on spike's face making a similar expression of pleasure and looking at buffy's face.
scene direction: close on buffy's face still with her eyes closed.
scene direction: wider shot of the two of them from the waist up. spike gives a strong thrust and they both gasp slightly. buffy still has her eyes closed. spike leans in to look at her face.
spike: no ... don't close your eyes.
scene direction: she opens her eyes.
spike: look at them.
scene direction: shot of the scoobies dancing on, oblivious.
spike: that's not your world. you belong in the shadows... with me.
scene direction: close shot on spike's face as he continues moving slowly and talking into buffy's ear.
spike: look at your friends ... and tell me ... you don't love getting away with this...
scene direction: spike buffy still watching her friends
spike: ...right under their noses.
scene direction: close on buffy's face as she looks down at her friends.
scene change: cut to street scene, day. xander and willow walking past the coffee-shop and toward the magic box. xander groans and limps.
xander: oh! i think i pulled a jive muscle last night.
scene direction: willow chuckles
willow: the funky monkey claims another victim.
scene direction: they reach the door to the magic shop just as tara comes out, holding a large magical book.
scene direction: willow surprised
willow: tara. what are you doing here? i mean ... uh, it's okay for you to be here if you have things that ... you have to be here for.
xander: yeah, i'm gonna go bring anya up to speed on that monkey situation.
scene direction: xander gives tara a friendly smile as he passes her. she smiles back briefly. xander goes into the store.
scene direction: tara to willow
tara: there's a monkey problem?
willow: only if you don't stretch first.
scene direction: willow looking at tara's book
willow: the brekenkrieg grimoire? light reading?
tara: uh, yeah, i was just...
willow: no, it's okay. i, i didn't expect you to stop doing magic just because ... you don't have to hide it. i'm not - i'm, i'm doing better. no spells for thirty-two days.
scene direction: willow tara smiles
willow: i can even go to the magic shop now. as long as someone's with me at all times. but, uh, but it's better now, it really is. you know, if you were checking on me.
tara: no, i wouldn't ... i was just looking for buffy.
willow: oh. well, i-i haven't seen her since last night. she's not around much these days. we kinda miss her.
tara: i'm sure she feels the same way. if you see her, c-can you tell her that i need to talk to her? it's important.
willow: yeah. of course i will.
tara: thanks.
scene direction: tara starts to walk off, pauses, turns back.
tara: will? i'm ... i'm glad you're doing better.
scene direction: they look at each other. tara gives a little smile, turns and walks away. willow stands there looking sad.
scene direction: cue slow sad music ("out of this world" by bush).
scene change: cut to graveyard, night. buffy walks along, holding a stake. she wears a brown turtleneck sweater, a black jacket, and black leather gloves.
scene direction: when we die
scene direction: we go into the arms of those
scene direction: that remember us
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. spike stands with his shirt unbuttoned, smoking a cigarette and pouring a glass of blood. he takes a pinch of some herb from a jar and sprinkles it in the blood, picks up the glass.
scene direction: we are home now
scene direction: spike pauses as if hearing, or sensing, something. he looks toward the door, smiles.
scene direction: out of our heads
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the crypt. buffy walks up.
scene direction: out of our minds
scene direction: out of this world
scene change: cut to inside. spike walks over to the door, puts his hands on it and presses his body against it.
scene direction: out of our time
scene change: cut to outside. buffy stands right up next to the door, lifting her gloved hand to it.
scene direction: are you drowning or waving
scene direction: i just want you to save me
scene change: cut to inside. spike runs his hand up the door as if caressing it.
scene change: cut to outside. buffy has her hand on the door in the same spot as spike's.
scene direction: should we try to get along
scene direction: just try to get along
scene change: cut to inside. spike is still pressed up against the door, eyes closed, and breathing faster with excitement.
scene direction: so we move
scene direction: spike pulls the door open and walks out.
scene direction: we change by the speed of the choices that we make
scene direction: no sign of buffy. spike frowns, looks around. pan across the assortment of gravestones.
scene direction: and the barriers are all self-made
scene direction: spike frowns, sighs.
scene direction: that's so retrograde...
scene change: cut to another part of the graveyard. buffy walks along, under trees. the music fades out.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: don't think about the evil bloodsucking fiend. focus on anything but the evil bloodsucking fiend.
scene direction: sound of a woman screaming. buffy looks upward.
buffy: thank you!
scene direction: she breaks into a run.
scene change: cut to a nearby part of the forest. long shot of a woman running, with two figures chasing. one appears to be wearing a robe, the other dressed in regular clothes.
scene direction: buffy flies into the scene and tackles the figure in the robe. she falls to the ground and the other person is gone. not escaped, just gone. buffy looks around, stands up. she appears to be alone in the forest.
buffy: huh?
scene direction: buffy looks around. no one in evidence.
scene direction: whooshing noise, sound of whimpering. buffy whirls around. a few yards away she sees katrina lying on the ground, crying, hands over her ears. her back is to buffy. buffy takes a few steps closer.
buffy: it's okay. i'm going to get you out of here. can, can you walk? are you hurt?
scene direction: whooshing noise. buffy looks around. katrina is gone.
scene direction: sound of weird voices whispering.
creepy voices: what did you do? what did you do? buffy... buffy...
scene direction: buffy puts her hands over her ears, looking around anxiously.
scene direction: spike os
spike: ow!
scene direction: whooshing noise. suddenly spike is lying on the ground in front of buffy, his lip bleeding.
spike: bloody hell, what'd you do that for?
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: spike?
scene direction: whooshing noise. buffy looks to her right just in time to see a demon in a blue robe attacking her. he hits her in the face.
scene change: cut to wider shot and we see that there are three demons. two are attacking buffy as the third is fighting with spike right next to her. in foreground we see katrina lying on the ground.
scene direction: spike ducks a swing and grabs his demon around the waist.
scene direction: buffy hits a demon in the face, then kicks him.
scene direction: spike has his demon by the head and twists, breaking its neck. we see that spike is in vamp-face.
spike: buffy!
scene direction: buffy turns from one demon to see the other behind her. he hits her in the face. everything goes blurry. whooshing noise.
scene direction: scene change. buffy looks around. she's standing in an empty clearing. spike approaches, with no bloody lip.
buffy: spike. what's happening?
spike: so you thought you could just slip away, then? vampire, remember?
scene direction: he walks up close to her as she frowns in confusion.
spike: i could feel you.
scene direction: whooshing noise. scene change we're back in the demon fight again. buffy blocks a punch, punches a demon and continues fighting him.
scene change: cut to wider shot. the second demon is on the ground near katrina, but now gets up to attack buffy.
scene direction: buffy turns to punch the second demon. whooshing noise. the scene changes again mid-punch and buffy ends up punching spike instead. we see katrina running past. spike lands on his butt in front of buffy, his lip bleeding again.
spike: ow! bloody hell, what'd you do that for?
scene direction: katrina goes past them, crying. she stops a few feet away and lies down on the ground still crying. buffy stares in confusion.
scene direction: a patch of empty air begins to shimmer and the three demons appear, charging forward. buffy turns and begins fighting two of them as spike takes the third.
scene direction: buffy punches one demon and he goes down next to katrina, as buffy continues fighting the other. the second demon gets up and buffy swings at him.
scene direction: whooshing noise. the scene changes again and buffy ends up swinging at empty air. she looks around.
scene direction: whooshing noise. something hits buffy in the face.
scene direction: whooshing noise. buffy holds an unconscious or dead demon in her arms.
scene direction: whooshing noise. close shot on a demon's face as he punches buffy.
scene direction: buffy's head goes back, blurry. another scene change. there's a dead demon on the ground behind her. in front of her, spike is fighting the third demon.
spike: buffy!
scene direction: buffy whirls around, takes a punch to the face, kicks and punches the second demon until he goes down.
scene direction: a hand grabs buffy's shoulder and she whirls, still in fight mode, backhanding katrina.
scene direction: we see katrina go flying back and over the edge of a hill, falling to the ground and rolling down the hill. buffy watches this in horror. behind her spike is still fighting the third demon.
scene direction: buffy runs down the hill after katrina.
scene direction: spike is straddling the third demon and gives it what looks like a final punch. he starts to get up.
spike: buffy!
scene direction: the demon grabs spike's jacket and pulls him back down. now the demon is straddling spike and trying to punch him.
spike: do you mind?
scene direction: spike punches the demon so hard his fist goes through its chest and is visible underneath the back of its robe. the demon makes a face of extreme pain. spike shoves it off him, gets up and rushes down the hill.
scene direction: at the bottom of the hill buffy is kneeling beside katrina, staring at her. spike reaches the bottom and goes over to them.
spike: buffy?
buffy: she's dead.
scene direction: shot of katrina's lifeless body.
buffy: i killed her.
scene direction: spike frowns.
scene direction: long shot of the three of them in tableau, seen through some tree branches.
scene direction: shot of katrina standing beside a tree, peering through its branches at the tableau.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. buffy stares in shock at katrina's corpse. spike looks around nervously.
spike: we have to go.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: what happened?
scene direction: buffy shot of katrina's dead body
spike: there's nothing you can do now. we have to go before someone sees you.
scene direction: buffy whispering in horror
buffy: what did i do?
spike: we have to go, now!
scene direction: spike grabs buffy by the arms and drags her to her feet and away.
scene change: cut to another part of the forest. spike is pulling buffy by one arm. she is still in shock. they go around a tree and stop.
spike: all right. listen to me. buffy.
scene direction: spike shakes her
spike: buffy!
buffy: she's dead.
spike: it was an accident.
buffy: i killed her.
spike: i'm gonna get you home.
buffy: no!
scene direction: spike firmly
spike: i'm gonna get you home, and you're gonna crawl in your warm comfy bed and stay there!
scene direction: spike softer
spike: we're gonna sort this out. trust me.
scene direction: buffy stares at him in anguish.
scene change: cut to a view of this scene on a monitor. it beeps and zooms in closer, clearly showing the upset look on buffy's face.
scene direction: warren o.s.
warren: two problems...
scene change: cut to a shot of warren and andrew as they sit side-by-side in the van looking at the monitors. the scratch marks on warren's face are still evident. warren makes a triumphant gesture.
warren: ...one stone.
scene direction: the door opens. they both turn to look as katrina climbs in and leans against the counter. there's a bruise on her cheek from where buffy hit her, and her mascara is running down her face.
warren: nice job. she totally bought it.
scene direction: katrina sarcastic
katrina: yeah.
scene direction: katrina shimmers and transforms into jonathan.
scene direction: jonathan sarcastic
jonathan: some of my best work.
andrew: what happens now?
scene direction: we see that jonathan has the mascara streaks and the bruise.
scene direction: jonathan bitterly
jonathan: well, the night's young. gotta be some more girls we could kill.
warren: we stick to the plan! buffy thinks she killed katrina. well, it's her problem now.
scene change: cut to buffy's bedroom. buffy lies in bed, asleep but tossing and turning.
scene direction: creepy voices whispering
creepy voices: what did you do... buffy... what did you do...
scene direction: buffy turns over restlessly, lying on her side facing the edge of the bed.
scene direction: spike o.s.
spike: it's all right, luv.
scene direction: spike appears behind her, sliding under the covers, naked. he moves up behind her. buffy opens her eyes, frowns.
spike: shh, it's all right. it'll be our little secret.
scene direction: spike kisses her bare shoulder. buffy turns to face him, grabs his head and kisses him passionately. she rolls him over so that she's on top of him.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. shot of buffy's head and bare shoulders, sitting up, eyes closed in pleasure, moving rhythmically. she opens her eyes and looks down.
scene direction: shot of spike lying underneath her, on the bed, looking up at her with an expression of pleasure, with his hands stretched up above him. we can see buffy's hands resting on his chest.
scene direction: buffy continues to move on top of him, leans forward.
scene direction: she runs her hands up spike's arms and we see that his wrists are handcuffed together above his head. buffy slides her hands up to just below where the cuffs are.
scene direction: shot of buffy's face as she throws her head back in pleasure.
scene direction: flash-cut to buffy in the forest throwing a punch.
scene change: cut to buffy in the forest straddling katrina, holding katrina's hands which are cuffed together. buffy throws katrina's hands down onto the ground above katrina's head. katrina lies underneath buffy, looking up at her.
buffy: do you trust me?
scene direction: katrina suddenly smiles. then she makes an expression of pleasure and moans, but in buffy's voice.
scene change: cut to buffy and spike in his crypt, lying on the floor under the rugs, moving fast, with spike on top. buffy moans in pleasure.
scene change: cut to buffy in the graveyard punching katrina.
scene change: cut to the head-shot of buffy straddling spike on his bed. she lifts her hand, holding a stake. shot of spike lying underneath her, his eyes closed as if sleeping.
scene direction: buffy thrusts down with the stake.
scene change: cut to the forest. buffy is straddling katrina who lies with her eyes closed and the stake protruding from her stomach.
scene direction: katrina's eyes pop open. but they are the bright blue color of spike's eyes.
scene change: cut to buffy in her own bed as she wakes up from this nightmare. she is still wearing the turtleneck and is lying on top of the bed-covers. she sits up, panting and looking around.
scene change: cut to dawn's bedroom. dawn lies in bed sleeping, with a teddy bear beside her.
scene direction: buffy walks in, wearing a brown leather jacket over her turtleneck. she stands and looks at dawn. then sits on the bed beside her, puts a hand on dawn's arm.
scene direction: dawn slowly wakes up.
buffy: hey.
scene direction: dawn sleepy
dawn: what time is it?
buffy: it's late. i just wanted...
scene direction: beat. dawn frowns sleepily.
buffy: i love you. you know that, right?
scene direction: dawn looks alarmed, sits up.
dawn: what's wrong?
buffy: i know i haven't been everything i should be ... everything mom was...
scene direction: buffy dawn still looking scared
buffy: ...but i love you.
scene direction: buffy tearful
buffy: i always will.
dawn: why are you talking like this? buffy?
buffy: there was an accident. in the woods. a girl ... she was hurt. i hurt someone.
dawn: oh my god. is she all right?
scene direction: buffy almost crying
buffy: no.
scene direction: dawn looks shocked.
buffy: i'm sorry.
scene direction: dawn hugs her.
buffy: there's something i have to do. i have to tell what i did. i have to go to the police.
scene direction: dawn pulls back from the hug
dawn: the police?
buffy: dawnie, i have to.
dawn: but ... what's going to happen?
buffy: i don't know.
scene direction: dawn upset
dawn: they'll take you away. won't they.
buffy: i'm sorry.
scene direction: buffy looks down
dawn: no, you're not.
scene direction: dawn buffy looking surprised
dawn: you're never here. you can't even stand to be around me.
buffy: that is not true.
scene direction: dawn almost crying
dawn: you don't want to be here with me. you didn't want to come back. i know that. you were happier where you were.
scene direction: dawn crying
dawn: you want to go away again.
buffy: dawn...
dawn: then go! you're not really here anyway.
scene direction: dawn gets out of bed and runs out. buffy sits looking upset.
scene change: cut to exterior police station, night. cop cars parked out front, various officers going in and out.
scene direction: pan across the building to an alley beside it. buffy appears in the alley mouth, walking slowly.
scene direction: spike o.s.
spike: what do you think you're doing?
scene direction: buffy keeps walking
buffy: the right thing. for once.
scene direction: spike hurries up behind her, grabs her by the shoulders and pulls her back into the alley. buffy struggles. he spins her around and throws her to the ground.
spike: sorry, luv.
scene direction: spike buffy getting up
spike: can't let you do that.
buffy: i have to tell them what happened.
spike: nothing happened.
scene direction: buffy surprised
buffy: i killed that girl.
spike: demons in the woods? time going wonky? they won't believe you.
buffy: i'll show them.
scene direction: spike coolly
spike: show them what?
scene direction: buffy's expression turns to anger as she realizes what he's saying.
buffy: what did you do?
spike: i took care of it.
scene direction: buffy very angry
buffy: what ... did you do?!
scene direction: spike firmly
spike: what i had to. i went back and i took care of it. it doesn't matter now. no one will ever find her.
scene direction: cop #1 o.s.
cop #1: where'd they find her?
scene direction: cut back to front of the police station. two cops emerge and rush toward a car.
cop #2: the river. she washed up half a mile from the cemetery.
scene direction: cut back to the alley. spike and buffy have heard this. spike rolls his eyes in disgust.
spike: oh ... balls.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. the police car zooms past the alley mouth, lights flashing, siren wailing.
scene direction: both buffy and spike speak with urgency.
spike: there still isn't anything to connect this to you.
buffy: it doesn't matter.
spike: it wasn't your fault!
buffy: i killed her!
spike: it was an accident. it just happened.
buffy: nothing just happens.
scene direction: buffy starts to walk toward the alley mouth. spike grabs her arm.
spike: you're not going in there.
buffy: i have to do this. just let me go.
spike: i can't. i love you.
scene direction: buffy upset
buffy: no, you don't.
scene direction: spike harshly
spike: you think i haven't tried not to?
scene direction: buffy hauls off and punches him in the face. spike goes flying back into a couple of garbage cans, against the wall of the next building.
buffy: try harder.
scene direction: she starts to leave again but spike is suddenly behind her, in vamp-face. he grabs her and again throws her to the ground farther up the alley.
spike: you are not throwing your life away over this.
buffy: it's not your choice.
spike: why are you doing this to yourself?
scene direction: buffy tearful
buffy: a girl is dead because of me.
spike: and how many people are alive because of you? how many have you saved? one dead girl doesn't tip the scale.
buffy: that's all it is to you, isn't it? just another body!
scene direction: spike sighing
spike: buffy-
scene direction: she attacks him. he blocks a couple of punches but then she gets in and hits him in the stomach.
buffy: you can't understand why this is killing me, can you?
spike: why don't you explain it?
scene direction: she hits him a few more times. he takes it, not fighting back.
spike: come on, that's it, put it on me. put it all on me.
scene direction: spike she kicks him
spike: that's my girl.
scene direction: buffy yelling
buffy: i am not your girl!
scene direction: she hits him hard. he falls back onto his butt.
scene direction: buffy gets on top of him and begins hitting him over and over.
buffy: you don't ... have a soul! there is nothing good or clean in you. you are dead inside! you can't feel anything real! i could never ... be your girl!
scene direction: she continues hitting him throughout this. now spike goes back to human face. he's looking very bruised and bloody, but he doesn't fight back, just takes it. buffy hits him again and again, looking angry and desperate.
scene direction: finally she stops and looks at him in horror.
scene direction: spike slurred
spike: you always hurt ... the one you love, pet.
scene direction: buffy gets up, stares at him, looking dismayed.
spike: buffy?
scene direction: she looks around, then her expression turns to determination. she starts to walk toward the mouth of the alley.
scene direction: close on spike lying on the ground as buffy's legs move past him. he tries to reach for her but can't.
spike: buffy...
scene change: cut to interior police station. buffy walks in, looks around. various officers and other people walking around, sitting, etc. buffy pauses, sees the front desk, walks toward it. we see the desk sergeant talking on the phone.
scene direction: desk sergeant into phone
desk sergeant: no, no statements. not until i get confirmation.
scene direction: buffy timidly
buffy: excuse me. i-i need to...
desk sergeant: uh, i'll be with you in a sec.
scene direction: he pushes a button for another phone line.
scene direction: desk sergeant into phone
desk sergeant: sunnydale pd. yeah, the phone's ringing off the hook here.
scene direction: buffy turns away, uncertain. she takes a few steps away, as we can still see the desk sergeant in the background.
desk sergeant: listen, you got an id on that body yet?
scene direction: desk sergeant buffy closes her eyes in pain
desk sergeant: yeah? okay, shoot.
scene direction: close on the cop as he grabs a pen and writes.
desk sergeant: katrina ... silber. s-i-l-b-e-r.
scene direction: back to buffy whose expression changes to a frown as the name triggers recognition.
katrina voiceover: warren, just tell her to go away.
warren voiceover: i can't.
scene direction: flashback to "i was made to love you." katrina and warren stand in the doorway of the apartment while buffy stands on the front step.
katrina: you're keeping secrets from me. other girls, and who knows what else!
warren: trina ... shut up.
scene direction: flash to present.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: warren.
scene direction: close on the desk sergeant.
scene direction: desk sergeant into phone
desk sergeant: thanks.
scene direction: desk sergeant hangs up
desk sergeant: now what's the problem, miss...
scene direction: he trails off in confusion. long shot of buffy's back as she disappears through the door. the cop shrugs.
scene change: cut to magic shop, day. close on an open book showing a drawing of one of the demons from the forest.
scene direction: anya os
anya: is this what you saw?
scene direction: we see buffy sitting at the table. in background, we see dawn sitting on the stairs that lead to the loft.
buffy: yeah, that's it.
scene direction: we see xander and willow sitting at the table as well, and anya standing beside it.
anya: mm. the rwasundi. very rare. um, its presence in our dimension causes a sort of ... localized temporal disturbance.
buffy: so that's why time went all david lynch?
anya: right. uh, human perception is based on a linear chronology. being exposed to the rwasundi for more than a few seconds can cause, uh, vivid hallucinations. and a slight tingly scalp.
scene direction: anya sits
willow: so that's it. these things just made you think you killed her.
xander: she was probably dead long before you stumbled across her.
buffy: it wasn't the demons. it was warren. he knew katrina. he had something to do with it, i know it.
willow: how can you be sure?
buffy: you always hurt the one you love.
scene direction: buffy pauses, contemplating this.
scene direction: dawn sullen, not looking at buffy
dawn: does this mean you're not going away?
scene direction: buffy gets up and walks toward dawn.
buffy: yeah. i'm not going anywhere.
scene direction: dawn quickly gets to her feet and exits before buffy can reach her. buffy looks upset. she turns back to the scoobies as the door to the back room closes behind dawn.
buffy: we need to find warren, and the others. whatever they've done, they're not gonna get away with it.
scene change: cut to the geeks' new lair. they are gathered around a computer with warren in the middle, working the keyboard.
warren: we're gonna get away with it.
scene direction: warren pointing at screen
warren: "injuries consistent with a fall."
close on the screen. it reads in part:
scene direction: confidential files
scene direction: coroners summary report
ruling: suicide
coroner: willard batts
scene direction: february 01, 2002 @ 0127 hrs.
scene direction: victim sustained injuries consistent with a fall.
scene direction: twenty-one year old katrina silber's death appears
scene direction: to have been caused by an accidental drowning or
scene direction: suicide.
scene direction: cut back to shot of the three geeks looking at the screen.
warren: the coroner's ruling it a suicide.
jonathan: what about buffy?
warren: well, it wasn't that hard messing her game up. if she figures it out ... we'll take care of her.
andrew: we really got away with murder.
scene direction: warren looks at andrew, smirking. we see that the scratches on warren's face are healing.
andrew: that's ... kinda cool.
scene direction: andrew grins a little.
scene direction: jonathan looks at the other two, looks uncomfortable.
scene direction: warren turns his smirk to jonathan.
scene direction: jonathan weakly
jonathan: yeah. cool.
buffy voiceover: are you sure?
scene change: cut to buffy's house, living room. buffy sits on the coffee-table facing tara, who sits on the sofa.
tara: i-i've double checked everything.
scene direction: tara smiling
tara: there's nothing wrong with you.
buffy: then why can spike hurt me?
tara: well, i said that there was nothing wrong with you, but ... you are different. shifting you out of ... f-f-from where you were ... funneling your essence back into your body ... i-it, it altered you on a basic molecular level. probably just enough to confuse the sensors or whatever in spike's chip. but it's all just surfacey physical stuff. it wouldn't have any more effect than ... a bad sunburn.
scene direction: buffy looks close to tears as she contemplates this.
buffy: i didn't come back wrong?
tara: no, you're the same buffy.
scene direction: tara lightly
tara: with a deep tropical cellular tan.
buffy: you must have missed something. will you check again?
scene direction: tara concerned
tara: buffy, i-i promise, there's nothing wrong with you.
buffy: there has to be! this just can't be me, it isn't me.
scene direction: buffy starting to cry
buffy: why do i feel like this? why do i let spike do those things to me?
tara: you mean hit you.
scene direction: buffy meets tara's eyes, but only for a moment, then looks away. tara frowns as she begins to get it.
tara: oh.
scene direction: longer shot of the two of them. tara rubs her knees nervously.
tara: oh, huh. really.
buffy: he's everything i hate. he's everything that ... i'm supposed to be against. but the only time that i ever feel anything is when ... don't tell anyone, please.
tara: i won't.
scene direction: buffy crying
buffy: the way they would look at me ... i just couldn't...
tara: i won't tell anyone. i wouldn't do that.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: why can't i stop? why do i keep letting him in?
scene direction: tara concerned
tara: do you love him?
scene direction: buffy just stares at her tearfully.
tara: i-it's okay if you do. he's done a lot of good, and, and he does love you. a-and buffy, it's okay if you don't. you're going through a really hard time, and you're...
scene direction: buffy still tearful
buffy: what? using him? what's okay about that?
tara: it's not that simple.
buffy: it is! it's wrong. i'm wrong. tell me that i'm wrong, please...
scene direction: buffy starts to cry for real now.
buffy: please don't forgive me, please...
scene direction: buffy sobbing
buffy: please don't...
scene direction: she slides off the table onto the floor, kneeling, putting her head in tara's lap. tara looks uncertain, puts her hands comfortingly on buffy's head.
scene direction: buffy sobbing, muffled
buffy: please don't forgive me...
scene direction: tara strokes her hair gently as she continues crying.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon.
scene direction: the end