scene direction: open on close shot of buffy's and willow's faces, in a room, staring at something offscreen. outside the window, lightning flashes and thunder rumbles.
scene direction: willow horrified
willow: buffy, it's hideous. oh my god, buffy. look at its arms!
scene direction: buffy nods bravely
buffy: i know. but it's my duty.
scene change: cut to a longer shot. we see both buffy and willow reflected in the full-length mirror in buffy's bedroom. they both wear extremely ugly dresses of some shiny teal fabric. buffy's dress has short sleeves and willow's has elbow-length sleeves. there are ruffles on all the sleeves and on the skirts from knee to floor. each dress also has a large green flower over the heart. buffy's hair is up in a bun and a large white flower is attached to one side of her head.
buffy: i'm ... buffy the bridesmaid.
scene direction: buffy flash of lightning, clap of thunder
scene direction: willow disgusted
willow: duty-schmuty. i'm supposed to be best man. shouldn't i be all ... marlene dietrich-y in a dashing tuxedo number?
buffy: no.
willow: oh.
scene direction: willow pouts
buffy: that would be totally unfair. we must share equally in the cosmic joke that is bridesmaids-dom.
scene direction: buffy groans and sits down on the bed.
scene direction: willow whining
willow: well, maybe ... if i ask anya, i can still go with the traditional ... blood larva and burlap.
scene direction: willow buffy putting on earrings
willow: i mean, she was a, a vengeance demon for like a thousand years, she would know all the most flattering ... larvae.
scene direction: willow makes a face
willow: what was she thinking?
buffy: i think she's probably too stressed to be thinking right now. what with xander's relatives and her ... demons.
willow: oh my god, last night, that rehearsal dinner. that was like a, a zoo without the table manners. and i bet it got worse after we left.
buffy: i just can't believe everyone bought that story about anya's people being circus folk. did you see the guy with the tentacles? what's he supposed to be? inky the squid boy?
willow: and xander's family. i haven't seen them that bad since my bat mitzvah. ugh, did you see how much they drank?
buffy: kinda. mr. harris threw up in my purse.
scene direction: willow makes a sympathetic face.
scene direction: anya appears in the doorway, wearing a bathrobe. she sees the other two, gasps and puts her hands to her mouth.
anya: oh!
scene direction: buffy and willow exchange a look, unsure whether anya is delighted or horrified.
anya: ohh.
scene direction: anya sighs
anya: you guys look so beautiful!
scene direction: she walks over and hugs them both at the same time.
anya: this is the happiest day of my whole life!
scene direction: lightning flashes again. across anya's back, willow and buffy exchange another look. willow looks annoyed, buffy tolerant.
xander voiceover: you seen my cuff-links, uncle rory?
scene change: cut to xander's apartment. xander stands near the kitchen nook, wearing a tuxedo shirt (only partially buttoned) and black pants. we see an older man in a purple bathrobe, red boxers, and no shirt, fiddling with the coffee machine.
xander: little metal deals, hold my sleeves together?
scene direction: xander holds up his hands so we can see the open cuffs
uncle rory: ah, you don't want those. what you really want is velcro. did i ever tell you how that was my idea?
krelvin: 'scuse me, coming through.
scene direction: a demon (krelvin) goes by, patting xander on the back. he is almost normal-looking except for his extremely warty face. uncle rory opens a drawer and pokes around. in background we see a large middle-aged woman (cousin carol) pouring cereal into a bowl for a little girl (karen).
scene direction: krelvin to xander
krelvin: hey.
xander: hey!
krelvin: how you doin'?
xander: good.
scene direction: krelvin proceeds toward the refrigerator. closer shot of cousin carol and karen staring. krelvin opens the fridge.
xander: rory? whatcha doin' there?
scene direction: uncle rory bending over, fiddling with the coffee machine
uncle rory: well, i'm trying to make myself an irish coffee, but this stupid thing is on the fritz.
xander: yeah, uh, watch it, it's still plugged in.
scene direction: suddenly uncle rory straightens up and begins to shake as if he's electrocuting. xander lunges forward to unplug the coffee machine. uncle rory stops shaking.
uncle rory: gotcha.
scene direction: xander rolls his eyes, exasperated. little karen takes a hit from an asthma inhaler.
scene direction: krelvin closing fridge
krelvin: oh, is, is that broken? you want me to take a look at that?
uncle rory: knock yourself out there, kevin.
scene direction: uncle rory moves the coffee maker to the edge of the counter
krelvin: uh, it's, uh, krelvin.
uncle rory: right, right. krelvin.
scene direction: the door opens and two more middle-aged people enter, dressed for rainy weather. the woman (xander's mom, jessica harris) has on a long coat, and a scarf tied around her head. the man (xander's dad, anthony harris) wears a tuxedo with a raincoat over it.
mrs. harris: whoo!
scene direction: mrs. harris waving at everyone
scene direction: mr. harris tapping his watch
mr. harris: xander, you're not ready yet?
scene direction: mr. harris xander rolling his eyes
mrs. harris: look at my hair.
scene direction: mrs. harris looking at her reflection in a compact
mrs. harris: of course, i suppose it doesn't really matter, 'cause i won't actually be in any of the pictures.
scene direction: xander exasperated
xander: you'll be in the pictures, mom.
krelvin: i think your hair looks lovely.
scene direction: krelvin resumes examining the coffee machine
mrs. harris: oh.
scene direction: xander's dad looks annoyed.
xander: hey, hey, how's about some breakfast?
scene direction: xander uncle rory walks by, gives xander's dad a coffee mug
mrs. harris: oh, well, i guess if i'm a little plump it doesn't matter, since i won't really be- xander: you'll be in the pictures, mom!
scene direction: mr. harris gestures with coffee cup toward krelvin
mr. harris: that's one of hers, right?
scene direction: mr. harris to krelvin
mr. harris: hey. you're one of hers, right?
xander: you met krelvin already, dad. last night.
krelvin: yeah. yeah, uh, we met. you, uh, you said i resembled your mother-in-law.
mrs. harris: tony!
scene direction: mr. harris remembering
mr. harris: oh, yeah.
krelvin: and then, you hit me with a cocktail wiener, and then you insulted my heritage.
mr. harris: heritage? being circus folks is suddenly heritage now? i mean no disrespect, of course.
scene direction: mr. harris shot of xander looking resigned as his mother buttons his shirt
mr. harris: i'm sure you come from a long, proud line of geeks.
scene direction: mr. harris is amused. xander isn't. he brushes past his father toward the door.
mr. harris: i'm kidding. just kidding.
cousin carol: xander? xander!
scene direction: cousin carol hurries up to xander as he's trying to escape.
scene direction: cousin carol softly
cousin carol: you know that guy kevin? if he could clear up the skin problem... do you think...
scene direction: cousin carol sighs
cousin carol: do you suppose he'd date a woman with a kid?
scene direction: cousin carol xander staring at her
cousin carol: i mean, i really can't afford to be very picky.
xander: cousin carol? your earrings are my cufflinks.
cousin carol: they are?
scene direction: cousin carol puts hands to her ears
cousin carol: oh my. oops.
scene direction: she takes off the "earrings" and hands them over.
xander: excellent.
scene direction: xander calls toward the others
xander: cufflinks: check. we're rolling. nothing on earth can stop this wedding now.
scene change: cut to exterior sunnydale, business district. it's pouring rain. the streets are deserted. suddenly the outline of a man appears, in red, walking. it turns into an actual man. he is elderly, wears a raincoat and holds an umbrella. he pauses, looks around, opens the umbrella and holds it over his head, resumes walking. lightning flashes, thunder rumbles.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on close shot of xander's waist with the tuxedo shirt tucked into the pants and the cummerbund covering it.
scene direction: xander panting
xander: is it too small?
scene direction: cut out to reveal buffy standing behind xander, trying to fasten the cummerbund. buffy is wearing the tuxedo jacket over her bridesmaid dress.
scene direction: buffy unconvincingly
buffy: nah.
scene direction: xander nervous
xander: it fit when i picked up the tux. how could it not fit now?
scene direction: buffy pulling
buffy: it'll fit.
xander: aw, man, what if it doesn't?
scene direction: xander looking at himself in a mirror
xander: what if i can't wear my cummerbund,
scene direction: xander panicking
xander: and then the whole world can see the place where my pants meet my shirt? buffy, that can not happen. i must wear das cummerbund!
scene direction: sound of fabric straining as buffy pulls hard on the cummerbund.
scene direction: buffy strained
buffy: and so... you... shall!
scene direction: she finishes fastening it and removes her hands, smiling triumphantly.
xander: hey, you got it!
scene direction: xander turning to face her
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: slayer strength.
scene direction: buffy takes a bow-tie from around her neck and puts it around xander's neck, begins tying it.
xander: and i've been meaning to cut back on that habit-forming oxygen.
buffy: look at you. you look great, mr. about-to-get-married.
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: glowing.
scene direction: beat while buffy continues trying to tie the bow-tie. suddenly she stops smiling.
buffy: oh my god! maybe you're pregnant!
scene direction: xander grins
xander: maybe. i dunno. maybe i'm just happy.
scene direction: buffy looks at him, starts to well up.
scene direction: xander concerned
xander: teary.
buffy: oh!
scene direction: buffy sniffles
buffy: good. good teary.
xander: happy teary? not frustrated with bow-tie teary?
scene direction: buffy still fiddling with bow tie
buffy: yes. happy. happy for you. that makes me happy for me. you and anya give me hope. it's like ... you two are proof that there's light at the end of this very long, long, nasty tunnel. and, i cannot tie this tie. isn't, where's your best man, isn't she supposed to do this?
xander: well, she said she had something important to do.
scene change: cut to close shot of anya's waist, wearing bridal gown. hands attempting to button the tiny buttons all up the back of the gown.
scene direction: pan up to reveal that it's tara trying to button the gown while willow stands watching.
willow: want me to hold it shut for you?
tara: o-okay.
scene direction: they both smile nervously. willow reaches over to hold the edges of the gown shut.
scene direction: anya os
anya: are you guys even listening?
scene change: cut to close shot on anya. her shoulders are bare and she wears an eye-mask over her face. her hair is in curlers. we still don't see the bridal gown.
anya: i need feedback, people.
tara: sorry. please continue with the vows.
scene direction: tara smiling at willow
scene direction: anya clears throat
anya: 'i, anya, promise to ... love you, to cherish you,
scene direction: anya willow kneeling down to work on the dress
anya: ...to honor you, uh, but not to obey you, of course, because that's anachronistic and misogynistic and who do you think you are, like a sea captain or something?' tara and willow grin in amusement and giggle a little, exchanging a look behind anya's back.
anya: 'however, i do entrust you with...'
scene direction: anya pauses, hears the others chuckling
anya: what? is something funny?
tara: no, n-nothing, sweetie, just, just keep still.
scene direction: tara smiling at willow
scene direction: anya clears throat
anya: okay. blah, blah, blah, misogynistic. blah, blah, 'i do however entrust you ... um, with my heart. take care of my heart, won't you please? take care of it because, it's all that i have. and, if you let me, i'll take care of your heart too.' willow and tara exchange another look, less giggly, more moved.
anya: 'i'll protect it and tend to it, like a little stray.' wait, no. 'like a, a little mangy stray that needs a home.'
scene direction: anya willow and tara amused again
anya: no, that's not it either.
tara: um...
scene direction: tara clears throat
tara: i think we're all set here. let's ... take a look at you.
scene direction: anya turns around as willow and tara step back, standing side by side. they both gaze at anya with open mouths.
tara: oh.
willow: wow. you look lovely. really... lovely.
scene direction: anya smiles, turns away from them again to face the mirror. we finally get a full-body shot of her in the bridal gown. it's white, strapless, fitted down to the knees then flaring out into the train. anya is standing on a low platform in front of the mirror.
anya: thanks. it's probably the blush of imprudent spending. do you think xander will like it?
scene direction: anya turns back to them, nervously
anya: oh, i want to see xander now!
willow: you can't. it's bad luck for the groom to see the bride in her dress, remember?
anya: right. i can't keep all these ridiculous traditions straight. what if i'm not wearing my dress when i see him?
scene direction: anya willow giving her a scolding look
anya: okay, no sex. cuddling?
scene direction: anya willow and tara giggling
anya: okay. it's just i'm so excited and i want to share it all with my best friend.
scene direction: anya excited
anya: i get to be with my best friend forever!
scene direction: anya squealing
anya: yay!
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the wedding location. the sign above the doors reads "sunnydale bison's lodge." cars are pulling up, people are walking in the two sets of double-doors. it's still raining and the guests have umbrellas, etc.
scene change: cut to inside the lobby. guests arriving, ushers taking their coats, people standing around chatting, etc.
scene direction: pan over to where uncle rory is standing with his arm around a young blonde woman, who wears a black-and-white caterer's uniform. dawn stands there with them, wearing the ugly green bridesmaid dress.
uncle rory: guess who agreed to be my date for tonight.
caterer: i'm really supposed to be working. i'm one of the caterers?
uncle rory: oh, hush, hush. no woman of mine is gonna work. all you have to do is sit pretty, and laugh when i tell a good one. tell her what a funny guy i am, dawnie.
scene direction: dawn quickly
dawn: gotta go.
scene direction: dawn nervous laugh
dawn: enjoy the wedding.
scene direction: dawn makes her escape. uncle rory laughs, turns around. he still has his arm around the caterer's shoulders so she is forced to turn with him.
scene direction: uncle rory noticing something
uncle rory: oh. bad head.
caterer: what?
scene direction: we see a large bison head mounted on the wall. it wears a bridal veil.
uncle rory: well, the lip wasn't split right.
scene direction: uncle rory lets her go, walks over to the head
uncle rory: you see, what you gotta do is you gotta grab the lip between your thumb and your finger, and then you have to slice right through the center of the meat.
scene direction: he makes demonstrating gestures. the caterer nods politely. then he puts his arm around her again.
uncle rory: it was my trade.
scene direction: uncle rory leading her away
uncle rory: i used to stuff things. i still do. but only for fun.
scene change: cut to dawn moving through the crowd. a couple of goth-types nod politely at her. she smiles at them, then gets to the front door just as d'hoffryn enters, carrying a bright orange box with a purple bow. he gives his umbrella to an attendant and looks at dawn.
d'hoffryn: ah. hymen's greetings.
dawn: hy - what?
d'hoffryn: hymen, the god of matrimony. his salutations upon you. may the love we celebrate today avoid an almost inevitable decline.
scene direction: dawn shrugging
dawn: cool.
d'hoffryn: i brought a gift. i suppose there's a table.
scene direction: behind him we see halfrek entering, giving her umbrella to the attendant. she is wearing a bridesmaid's dress and her demon face.
dawn: oh, uh...
scene direction: dawn noticing halfrek
dawn: halfrek. hello.
halfrek: oh, please! call me hallie, we're practically family now.
scene direction: dawn displeased
dawn: hmm. neat.
scene direction: dawn to d'hoffryn
dawn: i can put this on the table for you.
scene direction: d'hoffryn giving her the box
d'hoffryn: thank you. uh, careful, it's, uh- dawn: fragile?
d'hoffryn: squirmy.
scene direction: dawn looks at the box. we see that it has numerous holes in it. a tentacle pokes out of one of them, making dawn jump and gasp.
dawn: oh.
scene direction: looking a bit nervous, she turns away, carrying the box. halfrek falls in step beside her. d'hoffryn follows behind.
halfrek: so, dawnie, how's everything? going good? nothing you, uh, nothing you *wish* was different...?
d'hoffryn: hallie, for yekk's sake, take a day off. we're not here to do vengeance, we're here to mingle.
scene direction: close shot on the box as dawn puts it down on a table. the tentacles continue poking out.
scene direction: halfrek os
halfrek: oh, look. it's
scene direction: halfrek unintelligible
scene direction: dawn finishes dealing with the box and turns toward the door.
scene direction: long shot of spike entering, with his arm around a skanky goth girl. he looks around, super-casual. dawn spots him and walks toward him.
dawn: spike!
scene direction: spike turns
spike: oh. uh, i want you to meet my date.
scene direction: dawn politely
dawn: hi. i'm dawn.
scene direction: dawn shaking hands
skanky goth girl: uh-huh.
scene direction: spike still trying to be cool
spike: so, yeah. anyway, that's my date. she's with me. my date for the wedding.
scene direction: dawn not getting it
dawn: yeah. okay, well, nice meeting you.
scene direction: they move off in opposite directions.
scene direction: the camera continues following dawn through the crowd. there's a mixture of regular people and demons.
scene direction: dawn passes a small group that includes cousin carol, xander's mom, uncle rory, and two demons. one has tentacles on his face and huge clawed hands like lobster claws. the other is clem.
cousin carol: so, circus folk. what's that like?
uncle rory: uh, your friend, uh, the, the fellow with the warts, went off on his circus 'heritage,' like you folks are all in some kind of cult or something.
clem: well, there are ancient ways.
scene direction: clem the others staring at him
clem: clowning, as an occupation, grew out of the commedia del'arte, and, uh, ancient sports, of course.
scene direction: clem cousin carol nodding, smiling
uncle rory: yeah, well, the thing is, if you expect xander to bring up his kids in some kinda foreign-speaky bow-to-the-easty kinda cult- tentacle demon: so you think the children should be raised in ignorance of our ways?
scene direction: uncle rory xander's mom looking nervous
cousin carol: no! no, the harrises are very broad-minded. we're episcopalians.
scene direction: shot of xander's mom smiling nervously. in background, we see her husband sitting at the bar holding a glass.
mr. harris: 'til death do us part.
scene direction: mr. harris cut to closer shot as he laughs sourly
mr. harris: that's what cracks me up.
scene direction: he drains his glass and puts it down on the bar.
mr. harris: hit me again, barkeep.
scene direction: in the crowd, we see the old man from before. he walks among the people, looking around, looking anxious.
scene change: cut to another room. xander is now fully dressed with properly tied bow-tie, jacket, corsage in the jacket pocket, hair neatly combed. he finishes adjusting the jacket and takes a deep breath.
xander: how do i look?
scene direction: reveal buffy sitting in a chair in front of him.
buffy: well, let's see.
scene direction: buffy looking him slowly up from feet to head
buffy: found your shoes ... your fly's zipped. i'd say you look like you're ready to get married.
scene direction: xander nods nervously. buffy gets up and walks over to him.
buffy: you're one of the decent ones, xander. i hope i'm as lucky as you guys someday.
xander: you wanna get lucky? i've still got, what, fifteen, twenty minutes?
scene direction: buffy smiles, hugs him.
buffy: oh! all right.
scene direction: buffy pulls back
buffy: into the breach with you.
xander: okay, breach me.
scene direction: buffy takes his hand and they head toward the door.
xander: now, let's go over the list one more time. number one?
scene change: cut to the corridor as they emerge and begin to walk.
buffy: don't let your dad near the bar.
xander: check. number two?
buffy: don't let your mom near the bar.
xander: check.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: hey buffy.
scene direction: xander and buffy turn as dawn comes around a corner behind them. they don't stop walking. dawn falls in with them.
dawn: spike's here and he brought a total skank.
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: a- dawn: skank! a manic-panicked freak who he's like totally macking with right in the middle of the room.
scene direction: buffy they stop walking
buffy: i saw him shove his tongue- buffy: spike brought a date?
dawn: yeah.
scene direction: dawn snickering
dawn: wait till you see her.
scene direction: buffy looks like she isn't sure how she feels about that.
xander: guys, i better go meet and greet.
buffy: uh, just go ahead. i'll be a sec.
scene direction: xander walks off. dawn and buffy watch him go.
scene direction: xander gets to the doors leading out into the main lodge area. the doors are closed. he pauses for a moment, composing himself, taking a deep breath. then reaches for the doorknob.
scene change: cut to the lobby. xander opens the door and peeks out. then moves into the room, closing the door behind him. a guy comes up to him and shakes his hand. he smiles and nods. other people notice xander, turn to smile at him, pat his back, shake his hand, say "congratulations" etc. xander moves through the crowd.
scene direction: an elderly woman starts pinching xander's cheeks. his mom comes up.
mrs. harris: alexander. do you realize that the usher sat us in the third row?
xander: mom, i'm sure it was a mistake.
mrs. harris: well, i-i don't think it was really- the creepy old man comes over, as does uncle rory.
old man: excuse me.
uncle rory: say neph, do you know where the photographer is? i've got a proposition for him- old man:
scene direction: uncle rory tugging xander's arm
uncle rory: please, i really need to talk to you.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: xander?
mrs. harris: honey, listen to me.
scene direction: xander is surrounded and looks a bit overwhelmed. dawn comes hurrying over.
dawn: xander, one of anya's presents got loose!
xander: got loose?
mrs. harris: it's fine-
scene direction: mrs. harris unintelligible
dawn: yeah, it's a fully live squiggily thingy
scene direction: dawn xander's mom still talking
dawn: and hey, and why is halfrek a bridesmaid?
old man: please, please, you have to listen.
scene direction: old man pulls xander away
old man: you have to listen to me!
scene direction: dawn, rory, and xander's mom continue talking over each other as the old man pulls xander a few feet away.
old man: you can't get married today. it's a huge mistake.
xander: yeah right, thanks for the advice, uncle ... help me here?
old man: uncle? you don't recognize me, do you?
xander: i'm sorry, i don't- old man: it sounds crazy, i know. but you have to believe me.
scene direction: xander xander looking puzzled
xander: i'm xander harris. i'm you.
scene direction: xander stares at him.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: same scene.
xander: what do you mean, you're me?
old man: i'm you. i'm you from the future.
xander: oh, from the future! for a minute i thought you were a nutball but now that you're from the future- old man:
scene direction: xander agitated
xander: please, listen to me. i found a way back to warn you. to tell you- xander: hey, hey, easy, easy. everything's going to be all right.
scene direction: mr. harris os
mr. harris: toast!
scene direction: xander looks over his shoulder
xander: i swear i told that guy no drinks before the ceremony.
scene direction: mr. harris os
mr. harris: toast!
scene direction: we see mr. harris at the bar, standing up and raising his glass as the other guests look over.
mr. harris: a toast! to the harris clan.
old man: look. look! i can prove it to you.
scene direction: mr. harris faintly in background
mr. harris: i know in the past we've had our problems...
scene direction: the old man reaches into his pants pocket and takes out a small glowing purple orb. xander's dad continues talking in the background.
old man: i thought you might need convincing. come on. follow me.
scene direction: he leads xander away. xander looks over his shoulder at his dad, who continues talking, quite drunk.
mr. harris: ...and to my wife, jessica. where are you, honey?
scene direction: he looks around. mrs. harris is standing amongst the others, looking embarrassed. uncle rory points at her.
mr. harris: there she is.
scene direction: mr. harris raising glass
mr. harris: to my wife. what would i do without you, beautiful?
scene direction: mrs. harris looks a bit surprised, smiles.
mr. harris: wellllllll, for starters, i probably wouldn't need to drink so much, would i.
scene direction: mrs. harris looks hurt. the other guests look uncomfortable.
mr. harris: on the brighter side, marriage has probably saved me from a nasty dose of the clap.
scene direction: mr. harris chuckles
mr. harris: here's to ya.
scene direction: mr. harris drinks
scene direction: we see clem and the tentacle demon standing side-by-side nearby.
clem: does this jerk ever shut up?
tentacle demon: he's starting to make my suckers twitch.
mr. harris: and a toast ... to the bride's dermatologically-challenged family shrub.
tentacle demon: sit down!
mr. harris: hey, i paid for all this! you want me to sit down, you cough up a couple of grand, squidly.
scene direction: the tentacle demon starts toward mr. harris, angry.
tentacle demon: what'd you call me, you drunken piece of sh- buffy: mazel tov!
scene direction: buffy appears and grabs mr. harris's arm, leading him away just in time. they walk off as clem moves to placate the tentacle demon.
mr. harris: hey, what's this?
scene direction: buffy super-cheerful
buffy: you must be so happy for xander on his very special, once-in-a-lifetime day, huh, mr. harris?
scene direction: mr. harris ogling her
mr. harris: nice chassis, what's under the hood? rrowr!
buffy: you know, i could use a strong cup of coffee. hey, let's get you one too, what do you say?
mr. harris: did you used to own a little square pinkish purse?
scene direction: buffy less cheerful, sighs
buffy: i did.
scene direction: as they pass by, we see spike standing by a wall with his skanky date. he watches buffy go by.
mr. harris: i thought so. hey, what do you say we slip in the back room and i show you my- buffy: you finish that sentence and i guarantee you won't have anything to show.
scene direction: mr. harris stares at buffy. she yanks his arm, pulling him away.
scene change: cut to another room. the old man enters, still holding the glass orb (no longer glowing). xander follows. they walk into the middle of the room and face each other. the old man holds the orb in both hands.
xander: what is it?
old man: it's magic.
scene direction: old man the orb begins to glow again
old man: very powerful. look at it. you'll see what i've seen. feel what i've felt.
scene direction: xander stares at the orb. it continues to glow with a strong purple light.
scene direction: suddenly the light shoots in a beam from the orb onto xander's forehead. then he seems to morph into the beam of light and gets sucked back into the orb.
scene change: cut to a messy living room. an ironing board piled with clothes, stuff on the floor, etc. in background we see a foyer and a door to the outside. it's sunny. in foreground there's a big leather-covered armchair.
scene direction: the stream of light appears and resolves into xander, sitting in the chair, holding a bottle of beer in one hand and a tv remote in the other. he still wears his tuxedo.
scene direction: shot of the tv, showing a football game.
scene direction: xander calls
xander: anya.
scene direction: no reply. he sits staring at the tv for a beat.
xander: anya!
scene direction: two children come running in. the boy is a little older, about ten and the girl is about eight. the girl has bright makeup on her face and large pointed ears.
scene direction: sarah shrieks
sarah: get the hell away from me! dad, josh is teasing me.
josh: sarah's a weirdo! sarah's a weirdo!
scene direction: sarah whines and runs off, pursued by josh. anya appears in the doorway, wearing a red suit, tucking her blouse into the skirt. her expression is bored, or resigned.
scene direction: anya to xander
anya: what.
xander: you going out again?
scene direction: anya picking up a small wastebasket
anya: i'm doing a make-over party.
xander: i thought you hated those.
anya: well, one of us has to make some money.
scene direction: anya picking up empty beer bottles
scene direction: xander angry
xander: well, what do you want me to do, anya? huh? i can't work. my back is shot.
anya: and whose fault is that?
xander: oh, no no no. not the buffy thing again.
anya: you had no business fighting demons with her.
xander: buffy needed me. i had to help.
scene direction: anya bitterly
anya: well, it didn't save her, did it?
scene direction: anya xander drinking beer
anya: all it did was ruin our lives.
scene direction: anya turns away, puts the wastebasket down. xander sits staring at the tv, but not seeing it, looking hurt.
scene direction: anya os
anya: i'll be late.
scene direction: xander continues sitting there upset. anya leaves out the front door, slamming it.
scene direction: xander yells
xander: i hope you crash in your stupid pink car!
scene direction: flash to a restaurant, years later. xander and anya sit on one side of a booth, their children on the other. now josh is about eighteen and sarah about sixteen. xander still wears his tux and looks the same age, but anya looks about fifty. josh is staring at a palm pilot or similar device in his hand.
scene direction: xander is drinking red wine. he pauses, looks at anya who's looking at him.
xander: what?
scene direction: sarah os
sarah: i hate this place.
scene direction: anya shakes her head at xander as if to say 'nothing'. we see that sarah's large floppy demon ears are much bigger now, and have many piercings.
sarah: you guys know i don't eat wheat.
josh: you don't eat anything, freak.
sarah: at least i'm not a mama's boy.
josh: at least i'm not a demonic freak.
sarah: dad, make him cut it!
xander: maybe you should talk to your mother about that.
anya: you've had too much wine.
xander: have i?
scene direction: xander angry
xander: i'm just saying maybe you should talk to your daughter!
sarah: ohh, i hate you guys!
scene direction: sarah standing up
sarah: and i know that you're not my real dad, and i hate you, i hate you both! i wish you'd die!
scene direction: sarah storms off. anya continues eating. xander takes another sip of wine.
josh: this sucks.
scene direction: flash to a kitchen, even more years later. the sink is piled with dirty dishes.
scene direction: xander o.s.
xander: if you were so unhappy, why didn't you just leave?
scene direction: anya o.s.
anya: i wanted to. i should have!
scene direction: pan over to a small table against a wall. xander and anya sit there, facing each other across the table. he is still in his tux and still the same age. anya is much older.
xander: yeah, you should have. 'cause then maybe i would have gotten some touch in the past twenty years.
anya: i wasn't the one who stopped touching!
xander: oh! maybe, but you weren't touching me!
scene direction: he jumps up angrily, begins to pace.
anya: what did you expect me to do? you wouldn't come near me after buffy- xander:
scene direction: anya shouts
anya: don't bring her into this!
anya: fine. forget her. maybe you were just born to be a bitter, angry old man.
scene direction: xander quietly, very angry
xander: shut up.
anya: no!
scene direction: anya tearfully
anya: i want my life back! if i hadn't married you i wouldn't have had to hate myself for the last thirty years!
scene direction: xander grabs a frying pan off the stove and lunges toward anya, screaming.
xander: shut up!
scene direction: as he swings the frying pan toward her face, we flash back to the present. the purple light clears away from xander's face.
scene direction: shot of the orb in the old man's hands. the light goes back into it and it stops glowing.
scene direction: xander is panting, looks shocked.
old man: i'm so sorry. i didn't want to show you.
xander: what happened? what was that?
old man: a glimpse of your future. harnessed ... by magic.
xander: is she okay?
scene direction: xander panicky
xander: is she okay, what did i do?!
old man: listen. i don't have long here. the spell that brought me back, it won't last.
scene direction: old man xander still looking shell-shocked
old man: but you can change things. it doesn't have to go like this. but you can't marry anya.
xander: but- old man: you'll hurt her less today than you will later. believe me. sometimes, two people ... all they bring each other ... is pain.
scene direction: xander stares at him, horrified.
scene change: cut to the lobby. buffy walks by. most of the guests have taken their seats in the main room. there are short white pedestals holding vases of flowers at the entrance to the aisle.
scene direction: buffy walks along the corridor, pauses as she spots something up ahead.
scene direction: reveal spike, leaning against a wall. his skanky date is nowhere to be seen. he looks up, notices buffy, looks down at the floor.
scene direction: buffy looks nervous, steels herself and walks over to him.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: hello, buffy.
buffy: hey.
spike: it's a happy occasion. you meet my friend?
buffy: no. not yet. but she seems like a very nice attempt at making me jealous.
scene direction: spike small smile
spike: is it working?
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: a little. it doesn't change anything ... but if you're wildly curious, yeah, it hurts.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: i'm sorry.
scene direction: spike remembers himself
spike: or, good!
scene direction: buffy smiles a little.
spike: you want us to go?
buffy: no. no, i ... you have every right to be here. i pretty much deserve- spike: that's not true, you...
scene direction: buffy sighs, looks at the ceiling
buffy: god, this is hard.
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: i think we'll go.
buffy: go where? to your place?
scene direction: spike not thrilled
spike: yeah, i suppose. that was the idea.
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: spike defensively
spike: evil.
buffy: of course.
spike: but i won't. or i...
scene direction: spike frustrated
spike: i'll just go. give 'em my best or whatever. the happy couple.
buffy: i will.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: it's nice to watch you be happy. for them, even. i don't see it a lot. you, uh... you glow.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: that's because the dress is radioactive.
scene direction: spike snorts. they share an amused moment.
buffy: i should...
spike: yeah.
scene direction: she starts to walk past him.
spike: but it hurts?
scene direction: she stops, turns back.
buffy: yeah.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: thanks.
scene direction: he turns and walks off. buffy watches him go.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: you're welcome.
scene direction: we see spike a bit farther down the hall, finding his date. he grabs her hand.
spike: let's go then.
skanky goth girl: what about the wedding?
spike: let's just piss off, all right?
scene direction: he pulls her out the door.
scene change: cut to the bison lodge kitchen. xander is pacing back and forth, staring at the floor, still upset.
scene direction: willow appears in the doorway, sees him and smiles. she walks toward him.
willow: i'll say this for the y chromosome ... looks good in a tux.
scene direction: xander tries to smile
xander: well, your double x's don't look too bad there, either.
scene direction: willow fiddles with his clothing
willow: you're getting married. my little xander.
xander: all growed up.
willow: it's a good thing i realized i was gay, otherwise, hey, you, me and formal wear...
scene direction: xander gives a small smile and hugs her. over her shoulder, his face looks very conflicted.
willow: do you know how much i love you?
xander: mmm ... 'bout half as much as i love you.
scene direction: willow smiles, pulls out of the hug.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: you ready for the long walk?
xander: um ... yeah, just give me a sec, i wanna work on my vows.
willow: take your time. it's not like we can start the wedding without you.
scene direction: she smiles at him and leaves. xander watches her go, dropping his brave smile.
scene change: cut to the bridal room. anya has her hair out of curlers now, pulled back and covered with the veil. she also wears a thin silver necklace.
anya: 'i, anya, promise to cherish you...' ew, no, not cherish. uh, 'i promise...' we see tara sitting on a sofa nearby, observing, looking a little bored.
anya: '...to have sex with you whenever ... *i* want, and, uh...
scene direction: anya walking down off the platform
anya: uh, pledge to be your friend, and your wife, and your confidant, and your sex poodle...' tara: uh, sex poodle?
anya: yeah, why?
tara: um, i'm not sure you should say 'sex poodle' in your vows.
anya: huh.
scene change: cut to the main room. a string quartet begins to play. the guests look around, expectant.
scene direction: cut back to the bridal room. anya hears the music faintly, looks excited.
anya: music. they're playing the music! this is it.
scene direction: she smiles with major excitement.
scene direction: the door opens and buffy pokes her head in.
buffy: are you ready to go?
scene direction: but before anya can answer, something pulls buffy back into the hall.
scene change: cut to the hallway. buffy pulls the door closed as she turns to look at willow, who had pulled her away.
willow: he's gone. xander disappeared!
scene direction: buffy stares in dismay.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: same scene.
buffy: what? xander's gone?
scene direction: buffy anxious
buffy: wha-what should we do?
willow: i'm gonna go look for him ... i'm gonna find him. a-and you're going to stall.
scene direction: willow rushes off. buffy looks very nervous. she turns back to the door.
scene direction: cut back to the bridal room. buffy re-enters.
buffy: uh, heh, sorry about that. um...
scene direction: buffy closes the door
buffy: there's just gonna be a little bit of a delay.
anya: why? what's wrong?
buffy: nothing!
scene direction: buffy tara comes up beside buffy
buffy: nothing's wrong, it's just, um, it, the, the, minister. he had, uh ... to go ... and perform an emergency c-section.
anya: a c-section?
scene direction: anya tara looking very dubious
buffy: yeah! you know, he's, uh, not, not just a minister, he's also a, a doctor. you know, he's half-minister, half-doctor, he's a-a mini-tor. not, of course, to be confused with a minotaur! because he's all, you know, man, this doctor minister man, no, no bull parts whatsoever.
scene direction: anya turns away to primp in the mirror
anya: uh-huh.
buffy: so it, it should just be a couple of minutes.
anya: okay.
scene direction: buffy fidgets for a moment, opens the door and leaves. tara continues standing there looking nervous.
scene direction: anya still looking in mirror, clears throat
anya: okay.
scene direction: anya turns to face tara
anya: for the last time. 'i, anya, want to marry you, xander, because ... i love you and i'll always love you. and ... before i knew you, i was like a completely different person. not even a person, really...' cut to the street. xander walks along in the rain, still wearing his tux, getting soaked.
anya voiceover: '...and i had seen what love could do to people, and it was ... hurt and sadness. alone was better. and then, suddenly there was you, and ... you knew me. you saw me, and it was this ... thing. you make me feel safe and warm.' cut back to the bridal room.
anya: 'so, i get it now. i finally get love, xander. i really do.' cut to the main room. the guests are restless, fidgeting in their seats. all the demons are seated to the left of the aisle and the harrises on the right -- except that clem also sits on the right side.
karen: i'm bored.
cousin carol: it's a wedding, honey. we're all bored.
scene direction: buffy appears at the end of the aisle, coming to tell everyone about the delay. seeing her, the string quartet begins to play the wedding march ("here comes the bride"). everyone turns to look. buffy is flustered, waves at the musicians, making throat-cutting gestures, trying to get them to stop.
buffy: no! no, it isn't ...
scene direction: buffy to guests, nervously
buffy: it's not what you think.
scene direction: she hurries toward the altar. cousin carol wipes her eyes with a handkerchief.
scene direction: cousin carol tearfully
cousin carol: beautiful.
scene direction: buffy goes up onto the dais to talk to the minister, putting her hand over the microphone to muffle it. the guests observe.
scene direction: close shot of cousin carol giving a small flirty smile across the aisle. pan over to krelvin, returning the smile bashfully.
scene direction: buffy finishes talking to the minister, puts on a huge fake smile and goes back down the aisle. the musicians begin to play the recessional music. buffy glares at them, and they stop.
scene direction: the guests get even more restless. mr. harris gets up and leaves. mrs. harris watches him angrily.
scene change: cut to the bridal room. anya is pacing angrily.
anya: i mean, i am sorry, but what the hell is that minister thinking?
tara: uh, i don't know, he- anya: i mean, delivering a baby! on my special day! i mean, it's totally rude of him and the mother. i mean, why couldn't he have just told her to hold it?
scene direction: cut back to the main room. the guests are extremely fidgety.
scene change: cut to the lobby. mr. harris sits on a bar stool, tapping his fingers on the bar. mrs. harris stands nearby.
mr. harris: gimme a double jack.
mrs. harris: this is a disaster.
mr. harris: it's that anya, i know it. she made us pay for the whole thing and now she's going to louse it up. women!
scene direction: mrs. harris annoyed
mrs. harris: i offered to help. she didn't want my help.
scene change: cut to the main room. everyone fidgets. karen is using her inhaler. cousin carol gets up and walks off.
scene direction: angle on halfrek in the front row, with d'hoffryn behind her.
halfrek: this thing totally isn't happening. we should have known that she would never, ever- d'hoffryn: i'm worried about anya.
scene direction: halfrek bitterly
halfrek: oh, sure. of course you are.
d'hoffryn: oh, halfrek.
scene direction: d'hoffryn leans forward and puts hands on her shoulder
d'hoffryn: you know i love all my demons equally.
scene direction: halfrek looks mollified.
scene direction: cousin carol hurries up to buffy, who is standing at the back of the room.
cousin carol: buffy, you've gotta do something.
scene direction: buffy looks dismayed.
scene change: cut to close shot of the microphone on the stage. a hand reaches out and removes the mike from its stand. reveal buffy looking out at the crowd.
scene direction: buffy fake cheer
buffy: so ... who here's from out of town?
scene direction: the guests stare at her. beat. then clem raises his hand, grinning.
scene change: cut to a doorway somewhere nearby. dawn is talking to a teenage demon who has small curved horns on his forehead. they each hold a fruity drink.
demon teen: my family is worse.
scene direction: dawn scoffs
dawn: no way. mine is so messed up you have no idea.
demon teen: no, just wait until you see my mom dance at the reception, okay, and then tell me who's messed up.
scene direction: dawn laughs
dawn: i guess they're all messed up.
demon teen: yeah. everybody's pretty lame.
scene direction: cut back to the main room. buffy is still on stage, but the mike is back in its stand. buffy holds up a finger, grinning.
guests: first word...
scene direction: buffy puts her fingers up to her head like horns and moves from side to side.
scene direction: guests guessing
guests: antlers? animals? bull!
scene change: buffy smiles, nods yes, points at the person who said "bull." cut to the hallway. anya walks along. tara runs up behind her.
tara: anya, wait up!
anya: this bride waits for no one. if the minister's not here yet, well then we'll just have to get married without a minister.
scene change: cut to the main room. buffy and krelvin are on-stage. buffy is juggling three yellow apples(?). krelvin also begins to juggle another three. the guests applaud. buffy stops juggling but drops one of her apples. she smiles a big fake smile and takes a small bow. krelvin hands her another apple.
scene change: cut to the doorway where dawn and the demon teen are. they hear the applause, look over at the main room.
demon teen: geez. what is the holdup?
dawn: can you keep a secret?
scene direction: they start walking back toward the main room.
dawn: nobody knows this, but the groom? he took off and no one can find him.
scene direction: they have emerged into the hallway outside the main room, and anya goes by just in time to hear this. she stops short. tara runs up beside her.
scene direction: anya turning to dawn
anya: what?
scene direction: dawn uh-oh
dawn: um...
demon teen: i'll catch you later, dawn.
scene direction: he bails. dawn looks very upset.
anya: xander's gone? xander is missing?
scene direction: anya loudly
anya: what do you mean xander's missing?!
scene direction: shot of the main room. everyone heard anya's last shout. they all turn around in their seats to look at her.
scene direction: close shot on buffy onstage, looking dismayed.
scene direction: close shot on anya panting, looking around in extreme anxiety. she starts forward, into the room.
scene direction: uncle rory chuckles
uncle rory: it's a joke. xander's playing a joke. it's like one time, at one of carol's weddings, i had this ape suit- tentacle demon: oh, great.
uncle rory: -and i put it on- tentacle demon: another harris family joke.
scene direction: the harrises look insulted.
scene direction: tentacle demon to mr. harris
tentacle demon: why don't *you* have another drink?
scene direction: mr. harris slurred
mr. harris: drinking ... is the only way i can dull the pain ...
scene direction: mr. harris stands up
mr. harris: of looking at your ugly face.
scene direction: the tentacle demon stands up too, and goes over to confront mr. harris.
tentacle demon: you better think real hard about this, harris.
scene direction: he slaps mr. harris in the chest with his big claw-like hands.
mr. harris: don't touch me with those nasty circus things!
scene direction: the tentacle demon slaps him again. mr. harris swings at him, but he ducks.
tentacle demon: that's it!
scene direction: the demon throws a punch back, and they both fall to the floor, punching and grunting, etc.
scene direction: shot of buffy onstage, rolling her eyes.
scene direction: everyone gets up out of their seats, shrieking and so forth. a total brawl breaks out. buffy watches in bemusement.
scene direction: total chaos. shot of tara trying to make her way through the crowd, shrieking when some of the fighters bump into her.
scene direction: willow appears, grabs tara's hands and pulls her to a safer spot.
tara: thanks.
willow: you okay?
tara: yeah.
scene direction: they gaze at each other.
scene direction: the fight continues. anya wanders among the brawlers, looking around.
anya: xander?
scene direction: anya to fighters
anya: have you seen xander? has anyone seen xander?
scene direction: cousin carol grabs anya by the hand.
cousin carol: well, i saw him go in the trophy room with that guy!
scene direction: she points across the room. long shot of the old man watching the fight. anya looks, starts making her way toward him. she intercepts him in the corridor.
anya: you. you were talking to xander right before he left. what did he say to you? what did you say to him?
old man: really doesn't matter now, does it? it's done.
anya: what's done? did you... if you said something to make him leave...
old man: you'll what? haven't changed a bit. still as vindictive as ever.
scene direction: anya frowns
anya: do i know you?
old man: you don't recognize me, anya? i'm not the man i used to be. i know.
scene direction: anya stares at him.
scene change: cut to buffy still onstage as the fight continues.
scene direction: buffy into microphone
buffy: guys! will you break it up?
scene direction: cut back to anya and the old man. he turns to leave, but she stops him.
anya: xander. where is he? you tell me, old man! you tell me why he left!
old man: he left because of you.
scene direction: anya upset
anya: i didn't do anything.
old man: oh, really? what about this?
scene direction: suddenly the old man begins to grow, and morphs into a huge demon with gray skin, yellow eyes, and short yellowish spikes all over his head. anya stares up at him.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: same scene. the fighting continues in the main room as anya confronts the demon.
anya: tell me what you did with xander. what are you?
scene direction: demon deep demony voice
demon: you did this. you brought this on. i've waited a long time for this, anyanka.
scene direction: anya tearful
anya: who are you?
demon: remember chicago? south side, 1914?
scene direction: anya looks blank. the demon gets annoyed.
demon: stewart burns. philanderer! you'd think you'd remember. i remember you. but then again, you ruined my life.
anya: you were a ... i punished you.
demon: that's right. some hussy i'd been taking around summons you, next thing i know, i look like this and i'm being tortured in another dimension.
anya: i forgot.
demon: well, i didn't.
scene direction: the demon hits anya across the face, making her reel back. across the room, still on the stage, buffy sees this.
buffy: anya!
demon: every day i remembered ... and every day i thought how i would somehow get here, and ruin your life like you ruined mine. it didn't take much either. i scared off your fiance with a couple of phony visions.
scene direction: anya tearful
anya: visions of what?
demon: your future. or his nightmare vision of your future.
scene direction: anya crying
anya: that's it? that's all you did?
demon: yeah, it was easy. look at that, you're crying. oh, i like that.
scene direction: anya wipes at her face with her hands.
scene direction: anya whispers
anya: stop it.
demon: oh, cry, anyanka, cry. i love to see you cry. and now, i'd love to see you scream.
scene direction: he swipes at anya with a clawed hand, growling. she shrieks and falls to the ground.
scene direction: the demon goes to swing at her again but is interrupted by buffy hitting him in the face with a folding chair. he reels back. we see anya lying on the floor with two bloody slashes on her arm.
scene direction: buffy struggles to move, reaches down to rip a slit up the skirt of her bridesmaid dress to free her legs.
scene direction: the demon is holding anya, who struggles against his arm.
demon: come any closer and i'll kill her.
scene direction: buffy stands where she is, glaring at him.
scene direction: suddenly xander bursts in from outside.
xander: anya!
anya: xander!
scene direction: the demon turns to look, and buffy takes the opportunity to kick him in the leg. he yells and lets go of anya. buffy punches him a couple of times, grabs him and throws him back against the wall. he punches her and she reels back.
scene direction: shot of the main room as the brawling guests begin to notice the fight in the hallway and turn to look.
scene direction: anya runs over to xander.
anya: i'm so ... i'm so glad you're here. it was all lies, what he showed you ... it wasn't true, he just wanted to break us up.
scene direction: buffy is still fighting the demon. it grabs her by the shoulders but she breaks free and punches it in the gut.
xander: it doesn't matter now.
anya: so we'll be okay.
scene direction: xander still looks upset, watching buffy and the demon fight.
scene direction: buffy kicks the demon, making it fall to its knees. she grabs its head and slams it on the floor. the demon lies there, groaning.
scene direction: buffy rushes over to xander and anya, pushes between them.
buffy: excuse me.
scene direction: she grabs the veil off of the mounted bison head, runs back over as the demon is starting to get up. she wraps the veil around its neck and pulls. the demon struggles, gagging.
scene direction: suddenly a white pedestal hits the demon in the face. he falls down unconscious. we see it was xander wielding the pillar.
scene direction: angle on xander and buffy looking down at the demon. xander lifts the pedestal again and slams it down onto the demon -- camera angle stays on their faces the whole time.
xander: it's dead.
buffy: yup.
scene direction: the whole crowd of demons and harrises bursts into cheers and applause.
scene direction: willow, tara, and anya walk over to buffy and xander. they all stand staring down at the demon corpse (which we still don't see).
willow: is anyone else waiting for it to go poof?
scene direction: willow they all continue staring at the corpse
willow: maybe we can cover it with flowers.
scene direction: the guests begin picking up chairs and setting them up again.
mr. harris: look at this damage. i'm not paying for this, you freaks!
krelvin: stop calling us freaks!
scene direction: krelvin goes over to mr. harris and shoves him in the chest. they resume fighting.
mrs. harris: oh no! no, not again! no!
scene direction: everyone begins fighting again.
anya: stop it!
scene direction: everyone stops, stares at anya.
scene direction: anya commanding
anya: everyone sit down!
scene direction: they all continue staring.
anya: this wedding will go on, so get back in your seats!
scene direction: everyone hastens to obey.
scene change: cut to a moment later. xander and anya stand alone by the doors, which are open, showing the street outside. they hold hands.
anya: you know, it's bad luck to see me in my dress.
scene direction: she gives a little smile. xander just looks at her, still looking in shock.
anya: hey. it's okay. it's all over now, he's dead, and it was just smoke and mirrors.
xander: i know.
scene direction: anya smiling
anya: so ... we're ready now. let's get married.
scene direction: she tries to turn away but xander is still holding her hands, stopping her.
xander: i...
scene direction: anya turns back.
xander: i'm not.
scene direction: xander anya looking confused
xander: i'm not ready. i can't, ahn, i'm sorry.
anya: but it wa - it wasn't real. what he showed you, it wasn't real.
xander: i know it wasn't real. but it could be.
scene direction: beat. anya stares at him, getting teary again.
anya: what was it? was it about me? 'cause he wanted you to hate me, xander.
xander: it wasn't you.
scene direction: xander sighs
xander: it wasn't you i was hating.
scene direction: xander pauses
xander: i had these thoughts, and ... fears before this.
scene direction: another beat. xander stares at the floor.
xander: maybe we just went too fast.
anya: look, everybody has thoughts. it's natural, it doesn't mean that, that getting married is wrong.
xander: i know, i know...
scene direction: anya desperate
anya: look, you're just shaken up, okay? you just calm down and we'll start over, okay?
scene direction: xander looks over at the main room.
scene direction: shot of xander's parents yelling at each other. mr. harris is standing while mrs. harris sits in a chair.
scene direction: shot of xander watching.
scene direction: closer shot of xander's dad yelling angrily. pan down to xander's mom arguing back at him. it looks like he tries to hit her and she grabs his hand.
scene direction: cut back to xander still watching them.
scene direction: xander tearful
xander: we can't start over. if this is a mistake, it's forever, and ... i don't want to hurt you. not that way.
scene direction: close shot on their hands separating, falling to their sides.
xander: i'm sorry.
scene direction: xander anya crying
xander: i am so sorry.
scene direction: anya sniffles, wipes her eyes with her hand, continues crying. slowly, in a daze, she turns and walks away.
scene direction: xander watches her go. then he turns and walks outside. looks like it has stopped raining and is sunny.
scene direction: anya walks to the beginning of the aisle, still holding her bouquet. the cuts on her arm are a little bloody but not serious.
scene direction: the string quartet begins to play the wedding march. the guests all rise.
scene direction: anya starts to walk down the aisle, still looking dazed, her face streaked with tears. the guests stare in dismay.
scene direction: she stops at the other end of the aisle and just stands there.
scene change: cut to close shot of a coffee-table with a mug on it. a hand reaches out and picks it up.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: should we do something for her?
scene direction: we see dawn holding the mug. she's in the summers living room, on the armchair.
dawn: anything?
scene direction: we see buffy sitting on the sofa, looking sad.
scene direction: willow os
willow: she wants to be alone. that's what she wants.
scene direction: we see willow sitting beside buffy, holding another mug.
scene direction: willow softly
willow: oh, god, it just hurts my heart to think of her.
scene direction: buffy softly
buffy: i know. the whole thing hurts my heart.
scene direction: dawn softly
dawn: i thought they were happy.
buffy: they were. i know they were. they were supposed to be my light at the end of the tunnel. i guess they were a train.
dawn: why did this happen?
willow: i don't know. i feel like i should be hating xander. but i can't.
scene direction: willow sighs
willow: i just ... i just hope he's okay.
dawn: i wonder where he is.
scene change: cut to hallway of a crappy motel. the manager opens a door marked 7, revealing a crappy little room. he walks in, followed by xander (still wearing his tux). the manager hands xander the key.
manager: not much to explain. air conditioner's busted.
scene direction: xander looks around blankly.
manager: that's it. check-out's at eleven.
scene direction: the manager exits, closing the door behind him, leaving xander just standing there blankly.
scene change: fade to close shot on anya's face, still tear-streaked, still wearing her wedding gown but not the veil. around her it's all black, as in a featureless demon realm.
scene direction: a hand comes into shot, holding a handkerchief in front of anya. she takes it but doesn't look up.
scene direction: pull out to reveal d'hoffryn, circling around behind her.
d'hoffryn: are you okay?
scene direction: anya shakes her head
anya: i'm tired...
scene direction: anya sniffles
anya: of crying.
scene direction: anya teary
anya: i'm just so tired, d'hoffryn.
scene direction: d'hoffryn sighs
d'hoffryn: oh, anyanka. i'm sorry.
scene direction: d'hoffryn pause
d'hoffryn: but you let him domesticate you. when you were a vengeance demon, you were powerful, at the top of your game. you crushed men like him.
scene direction: anya doesn't react.
d'hoffryn: it's time you got back to what you do best ... don't you think?
scene direction: anya finally lifts her face up to look at him. her expression is blank.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon 