scene direction: episode opens on two pairs of feet running through the graveyard, night. sound of motors running.
scene direction: cut out and we see it's two vampires running, looking nervously behind them. cut out farther and we see three all-terrain vehicles chasing the vampires.
scene direction: cut closer to reveal the geek trio on the atvs, holding long stakes like jousting spears. warren gives a yell or laugh of excitement as the chase continues.
warren: ha ha!
andrew: they're getting to the gate!
warren: i see it, i see it!
scene direction: the vampires continue fleeing. now we see one of them has something in his hand - a flat round metallic disk three or four inches in diameter. the geeks continue pursuing.
scene direction: one vampire grabs a branch from a passing tree. the branch breaks off and he throws it at the atvs.
scene direction: the branch hits andrew in the face and he loses control of his vehicle. he falls off as jonathan roars up behind him.
scene direction: jonathan and warren swerve to avoid hitting andrew. jonathan side-swipes a gravestone, shattering it. he ends up riding head-on toward warren. they both stop just in time but go tumbling off their vehicles and onto the ground.
scene direction: andrew comes limping over.
andrew: we're gonna lose 'em.
scene direction: we see the vampires still running. they have almost reached the wide gate that marks the exit to the cemetery.
scene direction: jonathan and warren get to their feet.
jonathan: we need that disk.
scene direction: the vampires run through the gate and onto the street, only to be attacked by buffy. she hits the first vamp and grabs the second, but he twists out of her grip.
scene direction: the disk goes clattering across the pavement.
scene direction: the second vamp kicks at buffy but she blocks, hits him and throws him against the gate. he falls to the ground and buffy turns to the other vamp.
scene direction: the nerd herd stands watching.
warren: wait.
scene direction: the fight continues, moves around the gate and out of the geeks' view. warren moves forward.
scene direction: the second vamp gets to his feet and prepares to rejoin the fight. but suddenly he rises up off the ground.
scene direction: reveal spike sitting atop the stone pillar of the gate, holding the vampire by the back of his shirt, calmly watching buffy. the vamp struggles ineffectively.
scene direction: the geeks walk closer, carefully.
scene direction: buffy gets the first vamp in a strangle-hold, tries to stake him but he holds her arm off. spike continues watching and holding the second vamp in the air.
scene direction: the first vamp gets loose from buffy's hold and hits her.
scene direction: warren crawls across the ground toward the disk. he gets to it, grabs it. andrew and jonathan start to run off, as warren follows. buffy never saw them.
scene direction: the first vamp throws buffy to the ground and reaches for her throat.
spike: how you doin'?
scene direction: buffy holding the vamp off
buffy: oh, fine. you know, same old same old.
spike: here, i could take care of this guy if you want.
buffy: whatever.
scene direction: buffy kicks the first vamp off and flips to her feet.
buffy: your call.
spike: i mean, sure he don't look like much...
vamp 2: hey!
spike: ...but i'd wager he could give you a bit o' nasty.
scene direction: spike buffy kicking vamp 1
spike: save you the staking.
scene direction: spike buffy throwing vamp 1 to the ground
spike: all you gotta do is-
buffy: i am not telling my friends about us.
spike: right, i'll just be dropping him down to you then.
scene direction: buffy still struggling with vamp 1
buffy: you wanna tell them so badly? go ahead.
scene direction: she finally manages to get a hand free and stakes the first vamp. buffy stands up and walks over to the gate, looks up at spike and the still dangling vamp 2.
buffy: you know why? i tried to kill my friends, my sister, last week ... and guess how much they hate me. zero. zero much.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: so i'm thinking, sleeping with you?
scene direction: buffy spike looking annoyed
buffy: they'll deal.
scene direction: she turns to go. spike lets vamp 2 go. he falls to the ground and rushes at buffy from behind.
spike: in that case, why won't you sleep with me again?
scene direction: vamp 2 pauses, looks back at spike in confusion.
vamp 2: huh?
scene direction: buffy turns back, stakes the vamp and glares at spike. turns again and resumes walking.
scene direction: buffy quietly as she walks away
buffy: because i don't love you.
scene direction: spike looks down, pouts.
scene direction: spike to himself
spike: like hell.
scene change: cut to xander's apartment. it's dimly lit and very red. sad music plays -- "sao paulo rain" by tom mcrae.
scene direction: and midnight graffiti appears on your door
scene direction: pan across to reveal xander sitting on the floor holding a bottle of beer. he takes a sip, stares blankly.
scene direction: so we all can sleep safe in our homes
scene direction: xander takes another sip of beer, continues staring blankly.
scene direction: and the storms in the distance hold no rain...
scene direction: xander picks up a remote control and pushes a button. the music stops. he looks around in the silence. gets up.
scene direction: he walks over to a chair, picks up a jacket and puts it on as he leaves the apartment.
scene change: cut to the front of the building. xander exits, goes down the walkway toward the street.
scene direction: pan over to some bushes. we see anya standing behind them, watching him go.
scene direction: wolf howl. opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: exterior college campus, day. students walking around, talking, etc.
scene change: cut to inside hallway. willow stands beside a classroom door holding books. students are walking out of the classroom.
scene direction: tara exits the classroom, also holding books. she doesn't see willow, begins walking. willow rushes to intercept her, smiling. willow grabs tara's shoulder.
tara: hey!
willow: hey. look at you. all coming out of class and everything.
scene direction: willow they continue walking
scene direction: tara smiling
tara: i do that sometimes. usually at the end part of the class.
willow: right.
scene direction: willow nervous laugh
tara: so how's your, you know, after the whole basement deal?
scene direction: tara gesturing at her neck
scene direction: willow puts hand to her neck
willow: it's between a hitch and a kink, with a side of a twinge. it's okay.
scene direction: willow smiling
tara: and buffy's okay too? enjoying the refreshing sanity and so forth?
scene direction: tara stops walking
scene direction: willow loud fake laugh
willow: ha, yeah! refreshing san - that's funny.
scene direction: willow more seriously
willow: she's okay. a little ... freaked. i'm glad she didn't hurt you.
tara: you too.
scene direction: pause. they resume walking.
tara: so, this is becoming kind of a regular thing, you and me after class.
scene direction: willow nervous
willow: uh, i didn't...
tara: only this time you stuck around.
willow: uh, um ... various sounds of hesitation...
tara: she was just a friend.
scene direction: willow relieved, nervous laugh
willow: friends are nice!
scene direction: tara smiles
tara: you rushed off before i could, you know, explain.
willow: well, officially, i have to say i have no idea what you're talking about.
tara: unofficially?
scene direction: tara stop walking, gives a teasing look. willow smiles hugely, then calms down but still looks happy.
willow: we should have some coffee some time.
scene direction: willow nervously
willow: uh, maybe some day ... this week after class?
scene direction: tara small smile
tara: i'm free tomorrow.
willow: uh, you could, you could bring your friend.
scene direction: tara surprised
tara: i wasn't gonna - i-i mean, if you have a friend-
willow: no!
scene direction: willow quickly
willow: i'm, oh, i-i'm friendless.
tara: yeah, yeah, no friends.
scene direction: tara quickly
tara: i-i mean, i have friends-
willow: right, many dear friends, yeah.
scene direction: they both laugh and fidget nervously.
scene direction: tara sighing, smiling
tara: coffee.
willow: with us. who are ... just friends.
scene direction: willow both nodding at each other
scene change: cut to exterior street mall, day. lots of people walking around, shopping etc.
scene direction: buffy os
buffy: okay, how about this store?
scene direction: long shot of buffy and dawn walking along. buffy points at a store window.
dawn: ah. three pairs of earrings, a coin purse and a toothbrush.
scene direction: buffy dubious
buffy: you stole a toothbrush.
scene direction: dawn defensive
dawn: a mother-of-pearl handle. very fancy.
buffy: yeah, but you stole a toothbrush. as far as rebellious teenagers go, you're kinda square.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: dental hygiene is important.
buffy: guess this was kind of a lame sisters' day out, huh? i make up for trying to kill you by taking you to places you can't go in.
dawn: no, it's my bad. i'm the one that got caught taking stuff.
scene direction: buffy noticing something offscreen, pointing
buffy: hey, how about the pet store? you didn't take anything from there, did you?
dawn: a pocketful of goldfish. it didn't work out.
scene direction: beat. they continue walking as buffy stares at dawn.
scene direction: dawn laughing
dawn: no!
scene direction: buffy smiling
buffy: okay, good. we can go, and we can look at all the puppies.
scene direction: dawn grimacing
dawn: ehh. it's so awful! there's puppy mills, and keeping them in cages, and, and people poking at them all day.
buffy: yeah, but puppies, cute! come on, you used to love the pet store.
dawn: yes, when i was in my fives and sixes.
scene direction: dawn sees buffy looking disappointed
dawn: uh, come on, we'll go look.
scene direction: dawn looking around
dawn: besides, i don't think there's another store here where i can ... show my face.
buffy: it'll pass. you've returned all the stuff that you still had, and we're paying for the rest.
dawn: i'm paying for the rest.
buffy: we'll figure it out.
scene direction: they look at each other.
scene change: cut to close-up of the disk from earlier. we see that it has symbols drawn in concentric rings on its surface. it sits on a table leaning against a small glass jar filled with yellow liquid.
scene direction: jonathan os
jonathan: get back.
scene direction: reveal jonathan sitting by the table holding a glass mortar and pestle. the table also holds an array of test tubes, and the requisite arrangement of curly tubes and jars filled with liquids of various colors. warren stands by jonathan's shoulder.
jonathan: you don't want to make me rush this.
scene direction: jonathan mixing stuff in the mortar
warren: i'm not impressed, padawan. when do we hit pay-dirt?
jonathan: if something goes wrong, it's gonna surge...
scene direction: jonathan warren pacing to the other side
jonathan: ...and we'll be deader than an ex-girlfriend.
scene direction: warren pauses, whirls to stare at jonathan
warren: what did you say?
scene direction: jonathan annoyed
jonathan: just let me work!
scene direction: warren playing it cool
warren: all right. all right, you do what you need to do. you get us to the goods, and then watch out!
scene direction: warren smiles
warren: it'll gonna be like ... it'll be like the whole world just spread open and gave it up for you, man.
scene direction: jonathan doesn't look thrilled by that. he looks up at warren.
scene direction: jonathan quietly
jonathan: and then we're done, right? we each take our share and we call it a day.
warren: you that ready to get rid of us? huh?
scene direction: in background andrew appears, pretends to be doing something but really is listening in.
warren: don't worry. we pull this off, you can go buy any tropical island you want.
scene direction: warren jonathan still looking grim
warren: aw, cheer up, short round. you're about to get us everything we ever wanted.
scene direction: jonathan still looks displeased but he nods and turns back to the chemistry set. warren turns away, goes over to andrew.
scene direction: warren quietly
warren: he's almost done.
scene direction: warren shot of jonathan working
andrew: i sorta feel ... kinda sorry for him.
scene direction: warren glares at him
warren: that's a weakness.
scene direction: andrew uncertain
andrew: um ... okay.
warren: look at him.
scene direction: warren shot of jonathan working, frowning
andrew: he's got that same look on his face, the one he had that time i highlighted in his babylon 5 novels.
scene direction: andrew smiles at the memory, suddenly realizes something.
andrew: right before he told his mother on me! warren! i don't think we can trust him.
warren: we don't have to. not for that much longer.
andrew: is it gonna be that soon?
warren: the milk. in the fridge. how long 'til it expires?
andrew: well, we got it on friday, and i remember noticing there wasn't a full two weeks on it,
scene direction: andrew warren rolling his eyes
andrew: but we did get it in the fridge pretty quick, unless i'm thinking of the two-percent milk...
scene direction: warren annoyed
warren: forget it. it was a thing.
scene direction: warren explaining
warren: it's gonna be soon.
scene direction: andrew pretending to get it
andrew: oh. wow.
scene direction: they nod at each other.
scene change: cut to xander's apartment, night. xander enters from the hallway, closes the door behind him, turns around, sees something and stops.
scene direction: reveal anya sitting at the table. she stands up quickly.
xander: oh my god.
scene direction: he walks quickly toward her. she backs away, twisting her hands nervously.
xander: how are you?
anya: ducky. you?
scene direction: xander holding out a hand toward her
xander: ahn.
scene direction: xander sighs
xander: please. let me, uh, explain.
scene direction: anya watches him, still fidgeting with her hands and looking nervous.
xander: i know there's nothing that i can say or do to make up for what i did. i can't. sometimes when i wake up in the morning, i'm like, 'oh god, is this my life? was that me?'
scene direction: anya softly
anya: me too.
xander: but you gotta believe me, please. i want to make up for it. i want to take away the hurt.
scene direction: xander small sigh
xander: i love you so much.
scene direction: anya looks touched, seems to be softening up a bit.
scene direction: xander embarrassed smile
xander: i, i may have practiced that a couple times in front of the mirror.
anya: i just ... don't understand what happened.
xander: i do. i'm an idiot. all i had to do was say something earlier.
scene direction: xander anya looks surprised
xander: i could have spared you from that ... that nightmare.
scene direction: through this speech anya begins to frown and look hurt again. she backs away a few steps and folds her arms.
anya: said something about what?
scene direction: xander makes "uh-oh" face
xander: no, no! i mean, you know, if i were, like, more ... self-aware. because, with the whole idiot thing.
scene direction: anya arms still folded, angrily
anya: if you had been more self-aware, you would have what?
scene direction: anya xander looking alarmed
anya: been able to stop the wedding?
xander: no no, it's not like that, that's not what...
scene direction: xander pauses, frustrated sigh
xander: okay, see, i didn't practice this part.
scene direction: anya firmly
anya: do you still want to get married?
scene direction: close on xander's face. he hesitates, looks unsure. anya looks upset.
scene direction: anya very quietly
anya: oh.
xander: ahn, it's a very complicated question.
scene direction: anya getting teary
anya: no, actually, it's really not. it's kind of an either-or deal. do you want to get married?
xander: someday, yes, very much. when we're ready.
scene direction: xander anya looking very hurt
xander: i don't want you to take this as a bad thing. it's good.
scene direction: xander anya looking resigned, annoyed
xander: i love you, i love you so much, i'm just trying to be honest with you.
scene direction: anya angry
anya: yes, honesty *now*. congratulations, xander, on being honest now. i wonder what the medal will say.
scene direction: xander confused
xander: okay, clearly i'm not handling this well.
scene direction: anya yelling
anya: well, duh!
scene direction: she turns away, walks a few steps away. xander walks a few steps toward her. shot of both with anya in foreground, her back to xander, arms crossed and looking angry; xander in background.
xander: all i want is for us to be together. i love you, i ... i wish we could just go back to the way things were before.
scene direction: anya's face slowly morphs into her demon face.
scene direction: anya demon voice
anya: and i wish you were never born!
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: exterior shot of xander's apartment building, night.
scene change: cut to inside. still the same scene. anya stands with her back to xander, her demon face on, arms folded.
xander: i know this is all coming out wrong.
scene direction: anya morphs back into human face, frowning in confusion. she turns around to look at xander.
scene direction: anya angry
anya: i wish you felt the pain of a thousand searing pokers boiling your heart in its own juices!
xander: i know, honey. i totally deserve that.
scene direction: anya confused
anya: i ... i wish you had tentacles where your beady eyes should be! i wish your intestines were tied in knots and ripped apart inside your lousy gut!
scene direction: xander sadly
xander: they are.
scene direction: anya hopeful
anya: really?
scene direction: anya xander nods
anya: right now? does it hurt?
xander: god, yes. it hurts so bad it's killing me. anya ... i love you, i want to make this work.
scene direction: anya annoyed
anya: those are metaphor intestines! you're not in any real pain! what's wrong with me?
xander: no, honey, it's not you, it's me. that-
scene direction: anya frustrated
anya: ohh!
scene direction: she shoves past him and goes storming toward the door.
xander: ahn! ahn! wait. please.
scene direction: anya yanks the door open and exits. xander goes to the door and stands in the doorway, looking down the hall at her.
xander: ahn!
halfrek voiceover: so there was no child support in, like, eleven years...
scene change: cut to a restaurant, day. halfrek and anya sit at a table. halfrek holds a coffee cup. anya is fiddling with a yellow flower, not really listening to halfrek.
halfrek: ...not a single check, so now, every time he picks up a piece of paper that isn't a check for the child? paper cut.
scene direction: halfrek laughs cheerfully. anya is oblivious.
halfrek: oh, you know how i hate to toot my own horn ... but now his hands are just covered in all these tiny little bandages.
scene direction: halfrek smiling
halfrek: like a quilt.
scene direction: halfrek chuckles
halfrek: you know, made of bandages.
scene direction: halfrek looks over at anya, finally notices that she isn't paying attention. anya looks up.
anya: hmm?
halfrek: okay, do they not teach listening skills in human world?
scene direction: halfrek puts down coffee cup
anya: i'm sorry. i know.
scene direction: anya puts the flower back into its vase on the table
anya: i'm just distracted.
halfrek: what, about this thing with xander? don't worry, you'll figure out a way to-
anya: no, that's just it, i've tried everything. i tried every curse i knew, nothing's worked.
halfrek: wait. did you try to curse him yourself?
anya: yeah, i am the wronged party here, of course i-
halfrek: you can't exact justice against someone on behalf of yourself, silly!
scene direction: halfrek laughs
halfrek: how long have you been away?
anya: i haven't been scorned by a man in, like, a thousand years. i never had to make a wish for myself. there has to be some way around that.
halfrek: well ...
scene direction: halfrek thinks
halfrek: you could try getting someone to make the wish for you. i suppose.
scene direction: anya stares at her, contemplating this. a very small smile appears on her face.
scene change: cut to exterior summers house, day.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. dawn walks in and stares at the kitchen island.
dawn: uh ... did we open a chain?
scene direction: close shot on the island set with two place settings, bowls of fruit, four bottles of syrup.
scene direction: reveal buffy standing by the stove holding a spatula and frying pan. several cereal boxes lined up on the counter.
dawn: are we the international house of something?
buffy: nope. got up early, and it felt like a breakfast kind of morning.
scene direction: buffy puts pancakes from the pan onto a plate
buffy: okay, what kind of syrup do you want on your pancakes?
scene direction: dawn amazed
dawn: syrups have kinds?
buffy: oh! also, you know, i was thinking,
scene direction: buffy turns away to put the pan in the sink
buffy: after the mall yesterday, maybe we, we shouldn't go out tonight, you know, maybe we could stay in and, uh,
scene direction: buffy taking toast from the toaster
buffy: ow ... um, you know, get a pizza, or, uh, rent a movie?
dawn: um...
scene direction: buffy putting plateful of toast on the island
buffy: also, i didn't know if, you know, if you had plans this weekend,
scene direction: buffy turns to grab the cereal boxes
buffy: but i thought, maybe we could...
dawn: hey, buffy?
scene direction: buffy pauses, looking at dawn, with a large armful of cereal boxes.
scene direction: dawn quietly
dawn: i'm gonna be okay with the basement thing. really. you weren't you.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: this isn't guilt. i want us to spend time.
dawn: okay. good. i love spending time-
scene direction: buffy realizing
buffy: but i'm cramping your teenage style.
dawn: no-
buffy: yes, i am.
scene direction: buffy alarmed
buffy: i'm the embarrassing mom who tries too hard. when did this happen?
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: no, you're not, it's not that, it's just ... what if, instead of you hanging out with me? maybe i could hang out with you.
scene direction: buffy stares blankly, not getting it.
dawn: why don't i come patrolling with you tonight?
buffy: oh. and then? maybe we can invite over some strangers and ask them to feed you candy.
dawn: well, you guys went out patrolling every night when you were my age.
buffy: true ... but technically, you're one-and-a-half.
scene direction: dawn gives her patented adolescent exasperated look.
buffy: see, i thought a little levity might ... but okay, also no.
dawn: i just ... i just think i could help.
buffy: i'm sure you could. but it's a little more dangerous than i had in mind.
dawn: but-
buffy: dawn, i work very hard to keep you away from that stuff. okay, i don't want you around dangerous things that can kill you.
dawn: which would be a perfectly reasonable argument, if my sister was chosen to protect the world from tax audits? but, see, my sister is you, and ... dangerous things that want to kill me seem to find me.
buffy: but you don't need to go looking for them.
scene direction: beat. dawn gives buffy a pleading look.
buffy: now eat up. you're gonna be late for school.
scene direction: buffy turns back to the stove. dawn sighs quietly and sits down.
scene change: cut to the espresso pump, day.
scene direction: tara os
tara: okay, wait, it was under her wig?
scene direction: pan across various customers to reveal tara and willow sitting at a table with cups of coffee. both smiling as willow tells the story of the old lady in episode "double meat palace".
willow: well, it was this thing, it just came out from inside her head.
tara: that's disgusting! what did it look like?
willow: well, let's put it this way, if i wasn't gay before...
scene direction: tara laughing
tara: god, and this was *after* the invisible ray?
willow: yep.
tara: okay, i'm gone for a couple of months-
willow: oh, did i tell you about the demon eggs?
tara: see, now, now i know you're just trying to make me jealous.
scene direction: willow grinning
willow: so, what, no rollicking adventures in the dorms?
scene direction: tara quieter
tara: mm, it's not the same. it's not like living with a house full of family, or sharing a room with someone you...
willow: ...are friends with?
scene direction: as they gaze at each other, anya walks up.
anya: hi.
willow: oh my god. you're back.
scene direction: willow hugs anya
tara: we've been so worried.
anya: yeah, sorry. i needed to, you know ... i couldn't stay here. not after ... everything that happened.
tara: no, no no, we, we totally understand.
willow: but, you're back now, right?
anya: it's complicated.
scene direction: anya sits
anya: you know, and there's a lot to deal with.
willow: well, if there's anything we can do, just let us-
anya: actually ... um ... there is an eensy something i could use a little help with. you're lesbians, so the hating of men will come in handy.
scene direction: willow and tara look at each other in puzzlement.
scene direction: anya cheerfully
anya: let's talk about xander.
scene change: cut to magic shop, day. close on dawn.
dawn: he feels awful.
scene direction: reveal anya facing dawn.
anya: you think it's anywhere close to what i feel?
dawn: no, but-
anya: what if it were you, dawn? what if ... all you dreamed about was that magical day?
scene direction: anya dawn looking chastised
anya: the day when the one person you loved with all your soul would promise to cherish and protect your heart for the rest of his life, but instead he shatters it into a million jagged pieces?
scene direction: cut back to the coffee shop.
tara: well, it's, it's not really so much about hating the men.
willow: we're more centered around the ...
scene direction: willow smirking
willow: girl on girl action.
scene direction: willow tara grinning
anya: and men really like to watch that kind of stuff, don't they? men like xander.
scene change: cut to exterior summers house, day. anya and buffy stand on the front porch, leaning against the two pillars on either side of the door, facing each other.
buffy: i don't think he could feel any worse.
anya: let's test that theory.
buffy: anya, xander's my friend. i know what he did was wrong, and ... if it had happened to me, i'd-
scene direction: anya hopefully
anya: wish his penis would explode?
scene direction: cut back to the magic shop.
dawn: i never use that word anymore.
anya: coagulate?
dawn: w-i-s-h.
anya: oh, wish! as in 'i wish xander-'
dawn: right! that word. there's vengeance demons out there that are still active, remember? any 'i wish' could totally end in horrible grossness.
anya: gimme a for-instance?
scene change: cut to the summers porch.
buffy: i don't really think i should.
anya: did i mention the whole 'left at the altar' thing? didn't leave that out, did i?
buffy: no.
scene direction: buffy shakes head
buffy: look, i - i know what he did was wrong. god, if it happened to me, i ... i-i, it must have been torture.
scene direction: anya excited
anya: okay! let's talk about torture!
scene change: cut to the magic shop. dawn looks very dubious.
anya: so. tell me more about wishing xander's brains and guts would go blooey.
dawn: i didn't say that.
anya: yes you did.
dawn: no i didn't.
anya: i heard you.
dawn: i swear, i didn't say that.
anya: didn't say what?
dawn: um ... i just saw you were back and wanted to talk to you about working off my debt.
scene direction: dawn nervous chuckle
dawn: you know, my whole sticky-fingers, grabby-hands thing?
anya: oh, right, the mad thieving! good, yes, there 's much to do.
scene direction: anya mock stern
anya: i'm gonna put you to work, missy!
scene direction: anya gives a fake laugh. dawn continues to look dubiously at her.
anya: so, back to xander's brains and guts...
scene change: cut to the summers porch. now anya and buffy are sitting on the step.
anya: squish squish squish! guys have been running roughshod over you for years.
scene direction: anya buffy nodding, pouting, reluctantly agreeing
anya: torturing that perky little ticker. aren't you sick of it? don't you wish guys like that-
buffy: whoa. guys? there have only been four - three! three! three guys. that's barely plural.
anya: and didn't each of them rip your heart out? don't men like that, as to pick an example, xander, deserve to be punished?
scene change: cut to the coffee shop.
willow: well, xander is a guy, so ...
scene direction: willow tara looking confused
willow: it's kinda not the surprise that he likes to watch ... girls ... why are we talking about this?
scene direction: anya annoyed
anya: we're comforting me!
tara: well, i-i guess it's ... natural for guys to be interested in-
anya: god! what kind of lesbians are you?! if you love men so much, go love men!
scene direction: anya jumps up and grabs her to-go coffee cup, storms off.
scene change: cut to the summers porch. anya has stood up there too and started to storm off.
buffy: anya, i know you're hurting, but-
anya: what? xander doesn't deserve to suffer for what he did 'cause he's your friend, and i'm not, right? i get it.
buffy: no. that's not what i'm saying at all. what he did was wrong. he knows that.
scene direction: anya upset
anya: it just, it hurts. he hurt me so much.
scene direction: buffy gets up
buffy: he really did.
scene direction: buffy puts hand on anya's arm
buffy: look, i-i wish that...
scene direction: xander os
xander: anya?
scene direction: xander walks up. buffy and anya look at him.
scene direction: anya angry
anya: well, congratulations. they all still love you. even after what you did to me.
scene direction: she starts to walk off. xander starts to follow, but buffy grabs him.
xander: anya, wait...
buffy: okay. not, not crazy about that idea.
xander: what are you doing? i have to go after her.
buffy: or, in the land of the sane, you could give her some space, let her cool down.
scene direction: xander frustrated
xander: that's not proactive guy.
scene direction: xander pacing
xander: that's sit-around-and ... watch-the-rest-of-your-life-to-turn-to-crap guy.
scene direction: as xander paces, we get a shot of the tree on the front lawn. there are a few straggly plants around the tree's base, and a little ceramic garden gnome nestled among the plants.
buffy: true, uh, but at least crap guy gets to keep all of his appendages.
xander: and i'm supposed to what? walk away?
scene direction: xander buffy looking sympathetic
xander: shouldn't be too hard. it's what i'm good at, right?
scene direction: xander kicks out in frustration, smashing the garden gnome.
buffy: okay, see, that's exactly why a heart-to-heart is probably not your best course of action right now.
scene direction: buffy xander still pacing
buffy: when you're both angry and upset and ... what the hell is that creepy little thing doing in my yard?
scene direction: buffy walks forward, looking down at the bits of gnome. xander looks at them too.
buffy: did willow put that there when i was dead? 'cause if i had known, i would have crawled out of the grave sooner to-
xander: buffy.
scene direction: they both kneel beside the gnome's head. we can clearly see a tiny camera inside it. xander picks it up.
buffy: oh my god.
xander: looks like someone's been keeping an eye on all your ins and outs.
buffy: what the who?
xander: well, now, let's see. who's obsessed with buffy? who likes to hang out in her yard and keep an eye on her? who's in love with you and not getting any?
scene direction: buffy looks grim.
scene change: cut to close-up of a hand holding the camera.
spike: what's this?
scene direction: we see that we're in spike's crypt. spike is holding the camera up to look at it as buffy stands confronting him.
buffy: it's a camera.
spike: yeah, i got that part. why am i holding it?
buffy: someone was using it to spy on me. on my house.
scene direction: buffy spike frowning
buffy: xander thinks it's you.
spike: oh, the great xander thinks so! shudder gasp! it must be true!
buffy: spike-
spike: that ponce has always had it for me. every chance he gets, he sticks it-
scene direction: he pauses, looking at buffy.
scene direction: spike outraged
spike: you believe him, don't you? you think i was spying on you.
scene direction: buffy doesn't answer.
spike: you think i could do that?
buffy: because you don't lie or cheat or steal or manipulate...
scene direction: spike gives her back the camera.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: i don't hurt you.
scene direction: he walks a few steps away.
buffy: i know.
spike: no, you don't. i've tried to make it clear to you, but you won't see it.
scene direction: spike pauses
spike: something happened to me. the way i feel ... about you ... it's different. and no matter how hard you try to convince yourself it isn't, it's real.
buffy: i think it is.
scene direction: beat. he looks at her.
buffy: for you.
scene direction: she turns to walk away. spike looks hurt.
scene direction: buffy pauses by the door, turns back.
buffy: i know that's not what you want to hear. i'm sorry. i really am. but, spike, you have to move on. you have to get over-
scene direction: spike softly
spike: get out.
scene direction: buffy looks grim, turns and leaves.
scene change: cut to magic shop. anya stands behind the counter talking to halfrek, who is on the other side of the counter sitting on a stool.
anya: no! they're all, 'oh, poor xander! it took so much out of him, all that running away he did.' i just don't understand what's wrong with these people.
halfrek: did you really think they were the ones who would help you?
anya: well, but-
halfrek: do you want retribution, anyanka?
anya: i want xander good and cursed.
halfrek: then you know what you have to do.
anya: get a wish from someone who doesn't freaking love him.
halfrek: exactly.
anya: yeah, but my social circle is a little limited here. what am i supposed to do, just stumble upon someone who doesn't give a fig's ass if xander gets hurt?
scene direction: the bell over the magic shop door jingles as spike enters. he slams the door shut and strides toward anya.
spike: hey. i need a thing.
scene direction: zoom in on anya as she gazes speculatively at him.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: same scene. halfrek and anya looking at spike.
anya: so. what's your pleasure?
spike: fresh of out of pleasure. that's why i'm here.
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: i need something. numbing spell, maybe.
scene direction: anya fake smile
anya: uh huh. hang on.
scene direction: halfrek smiles and gets up as anya walks to the end of the counter. halfrek moves that way too so they can talk privately. we see that anya is wearing a red skirt, matching red tank-top, and matching red cardigan.
scene direction: anya quietly, smiling
anya: oh my god. spike *hates* xander. maybe i could get him to wish ... dammit, if only he were a woman.
scene direction: anya thinks
anya: got it! if i can somehow get someone to wish that spike were a woman, then i could go to him - well, he'd be a her by then - then i could go to her -
halfrek: anyanka. there's an easier way. now, i know you have this whole female-power, take back the night thing, i think that's cute. but i've been telling you for decades - men need a little vengeance now and then, too.
anya: oh.
scene direction: anya looks over at spike
halfrek: maybe this is a good chance to try it out.
scene direction: halfrek gives a cheerful little wave at spike and heads for the door.
halfrek: good luck with that. ta-ta!
scene direction: she leaves. anya smiles nervously at spike.
spike: sorry to bust up the little girls' night out.
scene direction: anya walking toward him
anya: that's okay. i'm ready to do some business.
spike: right then. got something that'll dull the ache a bit?
scene direction: anya smiling
anya: actually, yes.
scene direction: anya walks back behind the counter
anya: um, giles left a couple of supplies here, and i think ... this might help.
scene direction: she bends over, begins rummaging in the cabinet under the cash register.
anya: eases the hurt ... makes the sun shine a little brighter,
scene direction: anya spike frowning
anya: even makes boring people seem more interesting. ah. here.
scene direction: she produces a bottle of whiskey and puts it on the counter-top with a clank.
scene direction: spike grins.
scene change: cut to close shot on a table strewn with various colored wires. the camera from the garden gnome sits there with several wires attached. a hand attaches another wire to it. we see a laptop computer next to the camera.
scene direction: pan up to reveal buffy sitting at the other end of the table. the location is the summers dining room.
buffy: how's it coming? can you see who's getting the camera's signal?
scene direction: reveal willow sitting in front of the computer. xander stands beside the table.
willow: should have something once i get tapped into the fiber-optic network. we're gonna use the feedback relay to, uh, get their signal routed into our system.
xander: okay, if it's not spike, and i'm, i'm not saying i believe him ... but if it's not spike, i think we already know who's behind this.
scene direction: willow typing
willow: makes sense.
scene direction: buffy grimly
buffy: i want. to find. these guys.
scene change: cut to the geek trio lair. green, blue, yellow liquids bubble in the chemistry set. jonathan lights a red candle on the table next to the chemistry stuff. warren and andrew stand watching.
scene direction: we see that there's an old map spread out on the floor a few feet away. jonathan holds a short wooden rod with the magic disk attached to the end of it. he positions it in front of the candle and sprinkles some powder over the disk.
scene direction: close shot on the disk as the powder makes it glow red-hot and give off purple smoke.
jonathan: uncover.
scene direction: a beam of purple light shoots from the candle, through the disk, and onto the map. we see that the map is labeled "map of sunnydale." the light lands on a single point on the map.
jonathan: there. that's it. that's where we have to go.
warren: well, now that we've found out where we're supposed to go-
scene direction: suddenly the map bursts into flame where the beam of light is touching it. they all yell.
jonathan: yah!
scene direction: jonathan screams and runs off.
scene change: cut to magic shop, night. spike is sitting on the stool beside the counter, anya still standing behind the counter. they both have shot glasses and are in the process of drinking the shots.
scene direction: spike angrily
spike: so then, this girl says, "real for *you*."
anya: right. but getting back to xander...
scene direction: spike scornful
spike: xander. let's not waste any more breath on that wanker.
anya: but he made a fool of me. and nobody seems to care enough to do anything!
spike: i care. what he done to you? i've never stooped that low, and i'm an 'evil, soulless thing.'
scene direction: spike bitterly
spike: according to some people.
anya: but shouldn't he pay? don't you wish he had to pay in some horrible way?
spike: absolutely.
scene direction: spike picks up the whiskey bottle and his shot glass, turns to walk over to the round table in the middle of the room.
spike: take him on myself, if it wasn't for my little handicap.
scene direction: spike gesturing at his head
scene direction: anya comes out from behind the counter, bringing her glass.
anya: right.
scene direction: anya sits
anya: so ... hypothetically, what do you wish you could do to him?
scene direction: anya spike pouring fresh shots for both of them
spike: you name it, pet. you're the wronged party. something, uh...
scene direction: spike lifts his glass
spike: gruesome, how 'bout?
scene direction: spike drinks. anya maintains her fake-cheerful smile, drinks also.
scene change: cut to geek trio lair. andrew and warren are stomping on the fire trying to put it out. jonathan runs in with a fire extinguisher.
scene direction: warren grabs a blanket off the sofa and tosses it on the fire trying to smother it. he and andrew continue stomping.
jonathan: hey! that's my blanket!
warren: well, makes sense, it was your fire.
scene direction: behind warren's head we see a red light-bulb suddenly light up.
scene change: cut to summers dining room. willow still working on her laptop.
willow: hey hey, i think i've got something.
scene direction: buffy and xander, now both sitting, look over at her.
scene change: cut to magic shop. spike and anya sit facing each other on the bench next to the round table. anya gestures wildly with the bottle. she has removed her cardigan sweater and now just wears the red tank top over her red skirt.
scene direction: anya angrily
anya: thing about it is, none of this was my idea.
scene direction: anya disgusted
anya: i didn't ask to be human.
scene direction: anya pouring
spike: right! and i didn't ask for this bloody chip in my head.
anya: to tell you the truth ..
scene direction: anya puts bottle down
anya: all i wanted was to use him and lose him. i hadn't had a good tumble in a thousand years...
scene direction: spike grinning
spike: me too. the using part. i just wanted to know what i was missing, move on.
scene direction: anya maudlin
anya: yeah ... and he was ... all bumpy ... in the right places. and nice to me...
scene direction: she trails off, looking wistful. spike looks the same way.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: she was so raw. i've never felt anything like it.
anya: next thing you know ... i'm changing to please him.
scene direction: anya a little more upset
anya: i care if he cares!
scene direction: spike nodding
spike: right.
anya: and i'm off my guard. happy! i'm singing in the shower and doing my sexy dance?!
spike: exactly.
scene direction: spike pauses
spike: i ... have no dance.
scene direction: he looks sternly at anya as if to make sure she's buying it. she nods, but frowns a little.
scene direction: cut back to the dining room. willow continues typing.
buffy: talk to me, will.
willow: technology's pretty sophisticated, lots of booby traps and firewall stuff...
scene direction: willow shot of the screen showing a "radar" diagram of concentric circles
buffy: but can you get us a location?
willow: well, hey, i'm still me. just one - whoa.
buffy: what?
willow: there are other cameras.
scene direction: cut back to magic box. anya is now sitting on the table.
anya: screw 'em!
spike: to the rafters!
scene direction: they clink their glasses together and drink.
anya: i did everything for that man. was it ever enough?
spike: never!
scene direction: spike slurred
spike: i was always going above and beyond. i saved the scoobies how many times? and i can't stand the lot of you.
anya: me either! i hate us! everybody's so *nice.* nobody says what's on their mind.
spike: you do. that's why you're the only one of them i wouldn't bite if i had the chance.
scene direction: anya giggles, pleased
anya: really?
spike: absolutely. i have nothing but respect for a woman who is forthright. drusilla was always straightforward. didn't have a single buggering clue about what was going on in front of her,
scene direction: spike anya giggling
spike: but she was straight about it. that's a virtue.
anya: mm. xander didn't think so. he thought i was rude.
scene direction: spike like 'duh'
spike: that's because he's one of them. uptight. repressed.
scene direction: spike makes "uptight" gesture with one finger
scene direction: anya frowning
anya: you think?
spike: please. it's no wonder they couldn't deal with the likes of you and me, luv. we should have been dead hundreds of years ago ... and we're the only ones who are really alive.
scene direction: anya smiles, gazing down at him. he looks up at her. they both smile at each other.
scene change: cut to the dining room. on willow's laptop screen we can see a tiny image of the exterior of the double-meat palace.
willow: oh my god, the double meat palace?
scene direction: willow image changes
willow: the bronze? my classes on campus...
scene direction: close on the screen showing an overhead shot of a uc sunnydale hallway. then it changes to an image of a deserted construction site.
scene direction: willow os
willow: xander's site...
scene direction: willow xander looking surprised
buffy: what?!
xander: they've been spying on all these places?
willow: i can tell there are more feeds, i, i'm just having a harder time pinpointing 'em. here, lemme...
scene direction: willow typing
scene direction: cut back to magic box. anya is sitting on the bench again, closer to spike than before. the bottle is nearly empty. spike picks it up with a sigh, pours the last of it into one shot glass.
spike: here.
scene direction: spike picks up glass, holds it toward her
spike: ladies last.
scene direction: anya gazing sentimentally at him
anya: thank you.
spike: take it quick or my chivalry'll run out.
anya: no ...
scene direction: anya puts her hand on spike's
anya: thank you.
scene direction: spike frowns a little, puts the glass down, moves a little closer to her.
anya: this is the first time since ...
scene direction: anya shrugs
anya: it feels good to be with someone who understands.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: intimately.
scene direction: spike sighs
anya: this whole time, i've been coming on all ... hell-bent and mad. wanting his head, you know?
spike: yeah.
anya: when, really, i ...
scene direction: anya tearfully
anya: can't sleep at night, thinking it ... has to be my fault, somehow...
scene direction: spike shakes his head
spike: shh...
scene direction: anya crying
anya: what if it was just pretending? what if he never wanted me ... the way i wanted him?
scene direction: she snaps out of it a little, shakes her head.
anya: ohh. i'm sorry.
spike: now now.
scene direction: spike gently brushes some hair out of anya's face, then cups her cheek in his hand.
spike: he would have to be more than just the git he is, anya. he'd have to be deaf, dumb and blind not to want a woman like you.
scene direction: anya whispers
anya: then why?
scene direction: spike looks away, sadly
spike: the two of them ... they're weak, is all.
scene direction: spike pauses
spike: but, i'll tell you what, though.
scene direction: spike continues stroking anya's face
spike: they'll, uh, miss the water now that the well's gone dry.
scene direction: now spike has his fingers under anya's chin and she leans her face into his hand.
scene direction: anya quietly
anya: too hot to handle.
spike: too hot...
scene direction: he leans forward, very close. leans his forehead against hers.
anya: um ... just-just one more question.
spike: hmm?
scene direction: anya very softly
anya: can i see your sexy dance?
scene direction: spike small grin
spike: i'll show you mine...
scene direction: he moves as if to kiss her.
anya: wait. wait.
scene direction: anya very soft whisper
anya: what are we doing?
spike: moving on.
scene direction: they kiss passionately.
scene change: cut to the dining room.
willow: here, i think there are a couple more transmitters on the network, i just ... ucch, i've almost got a picture on 'em.
scene direction: cut back to magic box. spike and anya still kissing. then she pushes back a little.
anya: you know i'm only doing this 'cause i'm ... i'm lonely and drunk and you ... smell really good.
spike: see? forthright.
scene direction: she grins and nods, and they resume kissing.
scene change: cut to geek lair. the red light continues flashing, now accompanied by a loud alarm noise. the geeks look over in alarm.
warren: ahh!
andrew: it tapped into our feed, something's wrong!
scene direction: they all run toward the bank of computers along one wall.
scene direction: cut back to magic box. kissing continues as anya climbs onto spike's lap, straddling him. he pushes his hands up underneath her shirt and pushes the shirt up, revealing a black bra.
scene direction: cut back to the lair. the geeks still racing for the computers. jonathan still holds the fire extinguisher.
scene direction: cut back to magic box. spike sweeps a pile of stuff (including the empty liquor bottle) off the table with one arm. then retreats out of shot so all we see is the bare table. then spike's hands place anya on the table, now wearing just her black bra and short red skirt. she lies back on the table panting.
scene direction: then spike moves on top of her, between her legs. they resume kissing.
scene change: cut to the dining room.
willow: i think i've got the magic box.
scene direction: she continues typing and looking at the screen.
willow: whoa!
scene direction: she stands up quickly, staring at the screen.
scene change: cut to geek lair. close on the multiple keyboards sitting on the table, multiple hands typing frantically.
scene direction: warren os
warren: shut it down, shut it *all* down!
scene direction: shot of the monitors with various windows flashing chaotically across the screens.
andrew: i'm trying, i can't find --
scene direction: jonathan reaching across warren to andrew's keyboard
jonathan: here, dorkface-
andrew: i'll get it myself-
warren: guys, we have to - oh, holy crap.
scene direction: they all freeze, staring at one monitor.
scene direction: close on the monitor showing a full-color view of spike and anya having sex on the table in the magic box.
scene direction: the geeks stare, dropping their hands from the keyboards.
jonathan: oh my god.
warren: what is that, p-porn?
scene direction: we get another shot of the screen as the action heats up, the kissing becomes more frantic.
jonathan: oh my god.
warren: is that the cam in the magic box?
jonathan: oh my god.
andrew: what are they ... ohh.
warren: is that-
jonathan: spike.
scene direction: andrew riveted
andrew: he is so cool.
scene direction: andrew glances at the others, self-consciously
andrew: and, i mean, the girl is hot too.
scene direction: warren shaking his head
warren: dude.
scene direction: they all continue to watch intently.
scene change: cut to magic box. the kissing and such continues. pan over to a nearby display case where a human skull is sitting. the camera in its eye is clearly visible. (same skull-cam shown in episode "life serial")
scene change: cut to dining room. buffy and xander, alarmed by willow's reaction, get up and come over to look at the screen.
willow: wait, xander, no.
scene direction: xander looks
xander: oh, god.
scene direction: buffy stares at the screen, looks over at xander, back to the screen.
scene direction: close on the screen. it's monochrome unlike the geeks' setup, but the image of spike and anya kissing and writhing on the table is quite clear.
scene direction: shot of buffy and xander both watching in horror. sound of a door opening.
scene direction: dawn enters through the front door, closes it, sees the others in the dining room and walks that way.
dawn: hey guys. what's up?
scene direction: dawn walks over to them as buffy and xander are staring at the screen and willow staring at them. dawn looks at the screen and gasps. willow quickly puts her hand over dawn's eyes.
willow: whoa, whoa, whoa.
xander: i ... what is she...
scene direction: willow looks at xander with concern, then at buffy.
scene direction: close on buffy looking, if anything, even more upset than xander.
scene direction: close on the screen as the action continues.
willow: buffy?
scene direction: dawn and willow stare at buffy.
buffy: that's enough.
scene direction: buffy storms out. willow and dawn exchange a look.
scene direction: xander walks off in a daze. willow snaps out of it, a little.
scene direction: willow sits
willow: here, lemme just...
scene direction: willow typing
scene direction: shot of buffy's back as she heads toward the kitchen and the back door.
willow: you know, we, we aren't even really sure what we're just seeing here, there could be something-
scene direction: dawn rolls her eyes, follows buffy.
willow: there, got it.
scene direction: sound of a door closing (back door) and one opening (front door). willow looks up, realizes she's alone.
willow: xander?
scene direction: she gets up and goes to the foyer, finds the front door standing wide open.
scene direction: willow goes into the living room, sees something. zoom in on her face looking upset.
scene direction: zoom in on the weapons chest that xander made for buffy (episode "older and far away"). its lid is open and the weapons are in disarray.
scene change: cut to the street. xander walks along, walking fast with a grim look on his face. pan down to reveal the short-handled axe in his hand.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the summers back yard, night. buffy sits in one of the wooden lawn chairs, staring blankly. dawn stands nearby, her arms folded across her chest.
dawn: so. this is it? this is the stuff you've been protecting me from? you and spike?
buffy: and a lot of monsters.
dawn: uh-huh.
buffy: but it's over.
scene direction: buffy dawn sitting in the other chair
buffy: spike.
dawn: i wish you'd told me.
buffy: i kinda didn't wanna admit it to myself.
dawn: i get that.
scene direction: buffy continues staring at the ground.
dawn: i know it must hurt. to feel like you have to hide, to keep secrets from everybody?
scene direction: buffy looks at dawn, pensively.
scene direction: willow bursts out the back door of the house.
willow: buffy. xander's gone. he took your axe.
scene change: cut to magic box. pan across the assorted stuff scattered on the floor. the bench is lying on its side. there's also a tipped-over chair with anya's sweater hanging on it.
scene direction: anya, wearing her tank top again, picks up the sweater. in background we see spike fastening his belt. anya has her back to him. he looks over at her.
scene direction: close on anya looking a little ashamed or embarrassed. pan to spike looking the same.
scene direction: spike finishes with his belt and starts walking toward the door as anya puts on her sweater, staring blankly into space. spike pauses by the door and they both turn to face each other from across the room.
scene direction: anya gives a little nod, and after a moment spike nods back. he turns and opens the door, walks out.
scene change: cut to exterior of the shop. spike exits and immediately looks shocked at something directly in front of him. he dodges to the right and the short-handled axe plunges into the wall behind where he just was.
scene direction: shot of xander struggling to pull the axe free. spike stares at him in some alarm.
scene direction: xander gives up on the axe, grabs spike by the front of his shirt and throws him down on the sidewalk.
scene direction: shot of buffy running around a corner farther down the street, running hard toward them.
scene direction: xander picks spike up and throws him against a pillar, grabs him and turns him around, punches him in the gut. spike doubles over.
xander: get up. get up!
scene direction: spike glares up at him but doesn't move.
xander: you're just gonna sit there? do nothing?
scene direction: spike doesn't answer. xander grabs him, pulls him to his feet and slams his head against the pillar.
xander: that the kinda man you are?
spike: i'm not gonna fight you. chip.
scene direction: xander knees him in the stomach. spike groans and doubles over again.
xander: too bad.
scene direction: xander pulls a stake from his pocket, just as anya opens the door and sees them.
anya: xander, no! stop it! stop it! stop it!
scene direction: anya runs over, distracting xander. she reaches him just as buffy does, coming up behind him and shoving him aside.
scene direction: xander pants and glares at buffy. she pants and glares back.
anya: xander, i...
scene direction: xander panting
xander: don't even try to deny it. 'cause i saw it all. the whole beautiful show.
anya: how...?
scene direction: xander glares angrily at her.
anya: it was just, it ... it was just a thing. i ... i felt bad, and he was just ... there.
scene direction: buffy to spike
buffy: didn't take long, did it?
scene direction: buffy spike looking sourly at her
scene direction: xander still yelling at anya
xander: oh, oh, oh, okay! you had to do it. because he was there. like mt. everest.
scene direction: xander upset
xander: like i used to be.
scene direction: anya angry
anya: and then you weren't. you left *me,* xander. at the altar.
scene direction: anya yelling
anya: i don't owe you anything.
xander: so you go out and bang the first body you can find? dead or alive?
anya: where do you get off judging me?!
xander: when this is your solution to our problems. i hurt you, and you hit me back? very mature.
anya: no, the mature solution is for you to spend your whole life telling stupid, pointless jokes, so that no one will notice that you are just a scared, insecure little boy!
scene direction: xander bitterly
xander: i'm not joking now. you let that evil, soulless thing touch you.
scene direction: xander pointing at spike
xander: you wanted me to feel something?
scene direction: xander anya looking chagrined
xander: congratulations, it worked.
scene direction: anya stares at him, looks like she might cry again.
xander: i look at you ... and i feel sick. 'cause you had sex with that.
scene direction: xander points at spike again
scene direction: anya looks down at the ground, hurt.
scene direction: buffy looks a bit ashamed too.
scene direction: spike quietly
spike: it's good enough for buffy.
scene direction: xander yells
xander: shut up and leave her out of...
scene direction: xander stops as what spike said sinks in. he and anya stare at buffy. buffy looks all upset.
anya: buffy?
buffy: xander...
scene direction: xander shaking his head, full of pain
xander: i don't want to know this.
scene direction: shot of xander's stake clattering on the ground.
xander: i don't want to know any of this.
scene direction: he walks off. buffy looks very upset, watches him go for a moment, then turns to glare at spike.
scene direction: spike just looks back at her, unapologetic.
scene direction: buffy looks angry but resigned. she turns and follows xander.
scene direction: spike and anya stand side-by-side watching buffy go. shot of buffy's back as she walks away.
scene direction: spike os
spike: bloody xander, muckin
scene direction: spike ?
spike: up everything.
scene direction: spike looks sullen.
spike: you know, i wish-
anya: don't.
scene direction: spike looks at her, a little surprised. anya grimaces in self-disgust.
scene direction: they move off in opposite directions, spike down the street, anya back toward the shop.
scene direction: cue sad music -- "that kind of love" by alison krauss.
scene direction: who would sell their soul for love?
scene direction: another shot of buffy still walking away.
scene direction: or waste one tear on compromise?
scene direction: anya walks into the store, stares unhappily at the mess.
scene direction: should be easy enough
scene direction: to know a heartache in disguise
scene direction: anya slowly walks down the three steps into the main room, picks up the bench and rights it. continues starting to clean the place up.
scene direction: tara os
tara: things fall apart. they fall apart so hard.
scene change: cut to the summers house. willow is lying on the bed with some homework, but looking in surprise at the doorway. she sits up on the edge of the bed.
willow: tara?
scene direction: reveal tara in the doorway, leaning against the door frame.
tara: you can't ever ...
scene direction: tara sighs
tara: put them back the way they were.
willow: are you okay?
tara: i'm sorry, it's just ...
scene direction: tara deep sigh
tara: you know, it takes time.
scene direction: tara walking into the room
tara: you can't just ... have coffee and expect-
scene direction: willow guilty
willow: i know.
scene direction: long shot of the two of them -- willow sitting, tara standing -- with a considerable distance separating them.
tara: there's just so much to work through. trust has to be built again, on both sides ...
scene direction: tara willow looking upset
tara: you have to learn if ... if we're even the same people we were, if you can fit in each other's lives.
scene direction: willow continues looking at tara, sadly.
tara: it's a long... important process, and ... can we just skip it? can-can you just be kissing me now?
scene direction: willow looks hopeful, then delighted as the words sink in. she smiles widely, jumps up. tara meets her halfway and they kiss passionately.
scene direction: there was not faith enough
scene direction: still my heart held on
scene direction: when we find that kind of love
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon.