scene direction: episode opens on a television, with cartoons playing. pan across to reveal dawn and tara asleep on the sofa in the summers living room. tara is sitting up while dawn is lying with her head in tara's lap. it's daylight.
scene direction: a loud noise from the tv wakes tara up. she looks around in surprise. dawn wakes as well.
scene direction: dawn yawning
dawn: what time is it?
scene direction: tara looks at her watch
tara: almost seven. god, i just closed my eyes for a minute.
scene direction: dawn squinting at the tv
dawn: hm. and now there's cartoons.
scene direction: dawn frowns sleepily
dawn: plus, a mother of all night-wedgies.
scene direction: tara looks around
tara: uh-oh.
dawn: it's not tragic. i'm sure as soon as i stand up-
tara: no, dawn ... why didn't anybody wake us up? where is everyone?
scene change: cut to upstairs. dawn opens the door to buffy's room, revealing the neatly made bed that has clearly not been slept in. dawn and tara look in, look confused. dawn walks down the hall with tara following.
scene direction: dawn opens the door to willow's bedroom. the bed is also neatly made and not slept in.
dawn: willow didn't come home either. they were out all night.
scene direction: dawn fidgets nervously, turns to tara.
dawn: where are they?
scene direction: tara walks closer
tara: i'm sure they're fine, dawnie. i'm sure they just ... lost track of time.
scene direction: dawn looks uncertain.
scene change: cut to the abandoned house. rubble, bits of broken wood and plaster and cardboard everywhere. pan across to reveal a bare foot.
scene direction: suddenly buffy sits up with a gasp, naked and holding her black leather skirt over her chest. she looks around fearfully, panting, frowning.
scene direction: behind her spike begins to stir. buffy senses he's awake and jumps to her feet, wrapping the skirt around her body. she stands a few feet away while spike continues to lie there naked looking up at her. we see that they both have bruises and hickeys on their faces. spike has fingernail marks on his chest, as well as another hickey.
scene direction: buffy frowning
buffy: when ...
scene direction: buffy looks down at spike
buffy: when did the building fall down?
scene direction: spike looks around, frowns
spike: i don't know.
scene direction: spike buffy looking alarmed
spike: must have been sometime between the first time and the, uh...
scene direction: he smirks. buffy looks disgusted.
buffy: oh.
scene direction: buffy wincing, whining
buffy: oh my god.
scene direction: wolf howl, opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on the abandoned building. buffy is now wearing her white blouse and black leather skirt, and is putting on a shoe.
buffy: shoe, need my shoe.
scene direction: buffy looking around
spike: what's the hurry, luv?
scene direction: we see spike still lying there naked with one hand behind his head looking very pleased with himself.
buffy: the hurry is i left dawn all night. and don't call me love.
scene direction: buffy continues looking for shoe
spike: you didn't seem to take issue with that last night.
scene direction: spike smirking
spike: or with any of the other little nasties we whispered.
scene direction: buffy stands up
buffy: can we not? talk?
scene direction: buffy putting on her second shoe
scene direction: spike sighs
spike: i just don't see why you have to run off so quick. thought we could-
scene direction: spike waggling eyebrows
buffy: not gonna happen. last night was the end of this freak show.
scene direction: buffy goes to walk past spike but he reaches up and grabs her arm. she gives a little yelp of surprise. spike pulls her down onto his lap. she struggles a bit.
spike: don't say that.
buffy: what did you think was gonna happen? what, we're gonna read the newspaper together, play footsie under the rubble?
scene direction: spike shifts her so that he's holding her with one arm. he puts his other hand up under buffy's skirt. she makes an expression of pleasure.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: not exactly what i had in mind.
scene direction: buffy pushes his hand away, struggles against him.
buffy: stop!
scene direction: spike grinning
spike: make me.
buffy: no! no!
scene direction: she continues struggling for about another half second and then grabs his face and kisses him. she puts her arms around his neck and moans. they kiss for a moment.
scene direction: buffy pulling back
buffy: no, no, i-i have to-
spike: stay. i'm stuck here.
scene direction: spike looks upward
spike: sun's up.
scene direction: buffy looks at spike for a moment, resumes kissing him. more moaning. spike turns her around and lays her down on a conveniently placed pillow, lies on top of her. he moves down to kiss her neck. buffy moans again. spike lifts himself up to look at her.
spike: i knew. i knew the only thing better than killing a slayer would be f-
buffy: what?!
scene direction: buffy shoves him away and gets up angrily, moves a few feet away. spike remains sprawled on the floor.
buffy: is that what this is about? doing a slayer?
scene direction: spike smirking
spike: well, i wouldn't throw stones, pet. you seem to be quite the groupie yourself.
buffy: shut up.
scene direction: buffy wiping her mouth with the back of her hand
spike: i'm just sayin' ... vampires get you hot.
buffy: *a* vampire got me hot. one. but he's gone. you're just...
scene direction: beat. spike waits to see what she'll say.
buffy: you're just convenient.
scene direction: spike looks hurt. he stares at her. buffy's lip trembles like she might cry.
scene direction: spike stands and begins putting on his pants.
scene direction: spike angrily
spike: so, what now? you go back to treating me like dirt till the next time you get an itch you can't scratch?
scene direction: spike buffy just looks at him
spike: well, forget it.
scene direction: spike fastening his belt
spike: last night changed things. i'm done being your whipping boy.
buffy: nothing's changed. it was a mistake.
spike: bollocks! it was a bloody revelation.
scene direction: buffy still looks like she might cry.
scene direction: spike walks closer to her
spike: you can act as high and mighty as you like ... but i know where you live now, slayer.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: i've tasted it.
scene direction: he leans in as if to kiss her but she pulls back.
buffy: get a grip. like you're god's gift.
scene direction: spike chuckling
spike: hardly.
scene direction: spike stops smiling
spike: wouldn't be nearly as interesting, would it?
scene direction: he leans in to kiss her again. buffy pushes him away and starts to walk off, but he moves to intercept her.
buffy: no! let me go!
scene direction: spike stops her, puts his arms on her shoulders and holds her still. buffy glares at him.
spike: i may be dirt ... but you're the one who likes to roll in it, slayer. you never had it so good as me. never.
scene direction: buffy pushes his arms off.
buffy: uhh, you're bent.
scene direction: buffy moves past him to put on her jacket
spike: yeah, and it made you scream, didn't it?
scene direction: buffy very angrily
buffy: i swear to god, if you tell *anyone* about last night, i will kill you.
scene direction: spike skeptically
spike: right.
scene direction: spike reaches into the back pocket of his jeans and pulls something out.
spike: you're gonna want these, too.
scene direction: he holds up a pair of lacy white panties. buffy scowls and punches him in the face. he staggers backward and goes down out of shot.
scene change: cut to the summers kitchen. tara is ladling pancake batter onto a pan on the stove.
tara: pancakes?
scene direction: dawn enters, walks toward the fridge.
dawn: uh, sure.
scene direction: dawn goes to the fridge, takes out a carton of orange juice
dawn: um, should we call xander? what if they're all in a ditch somewhere?
scene direction: dawn closes fridge
dawn: ditches are bad. mom always used to talk about the ditches.
scene direction: dawn takes a glass and pours orange juice. tara takes the pancake batter bowl to the sink and adds some water.
tara: nobody's in a ditch. we'll call, but ... we'll give them some time before we wake them up.
scene direction: tara turns back to the stove.
tara: funny shapes, or...?
scene direction: tara sighs
scene direction: sound of the back door opening. both tara and dawn turn.
scene direction: willow and amy enter, chattering.
willow: it'll wear off in a day or-
scene direction: willow stops as she spots tara. they look at each other.
scene direction: willow nervous
willow: hey.
scene direction: tara nervous
tara: hey. i just ... b-buffy didn't come home last night ... either, so...
willow: uh, hey, uh ... this is amy. amy, tara, tara, amy.
scene direction: amy smiles
amy: how you doin'?
tara: fine, i ... i'd b-better g-get going.
scene direction: tara turns to go
scene direction: willow to tara
willow: amy! amy the rat?
scene direction: willow to amy
willow: sorry.
amy: no, that's fair. i was a rat.
scene direction: tara confused
tara: when...
amy: last night. it's nuts, everything's different. i mean ...
scene direction: amy grins at willow
amy: the bronze, for one thing.
scene direction: amy to tara
amy: and willow! she's a freaking amazing witch now.
scene direction: amy tara looking upset
amy: i couldn't even keep up with her last night.
willow: amy.
amy: no, it's true!
scene direction: amy to tara
amy: i mean, i can do some transmography, but she is messing with dimensions and everything, it was awesome! this blowhard dude, first she made his mouth disappear? thank god. and then-
scene direction: tara continues looking angrily at willow.
amy: i'm talking too much. sorry. it's just been ... you know ... me and a bag of pellets for the last few years, so...
tara: no, it's, it's fine. it's just, um, i, i re-really need to go.
scene direction: tara turns to leave
willow: tara, uh, you left some stuff upstairs, it's in-
scene direction: tara walking away
tara: i'll get them later.
willow: tara!
scene direction: tara walks down the hall toward the foyer. on the way, she passes buffy who has just come in the front door. buffy gives tara a confused look and continues into the kitchen. buffy walks with a slight limp. she still has visible bruises and/or hickeys on her face.
dawn: buffy! uh, where were you, are you okay?
buffy: i'm fine.
dawn: you're not, you're all sore and limpy.
buffy: i, i'm not ... sore, i just...
scene direction: buffy sits down with a grimace of pain
buffy: ... i had a fight, you know, the ... all-nighter kind.
dawn: figured. i knew that's why you didn't call. so, what's the big bad? uh, should we be worried?
scene direction: buffy looks around at amy sitting beside her and willow standing by the fridge.
buffy: no. i mean, i, i think you guys are, are safe.
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: tara was here?
willow: i guess she stayed over with dawn.
buffy: you guess? where were you?
scene direction: willow indicates amy
willow: we went out, kinda lost track of time.
buffy: oh.
scene direction: both buffy and willow look guilty.
willow: i never would have if i knew you weren't coming home.
buffy: no, o-of course, i mean, you know, it wasn't ... intentional.
scene direction: buffy dawn listening
buffy: and, you know, everyone's safe.
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: you are, right? you're okay?
dawn: oh, yeah. i mean, um, i think my pancakes are burning, but...
scene direction: willow looks over at the stove, walks slowly over and turns it off.
scene direction: shot of the pan with a very burnt pancake on it.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: tara was making...
scene direction: willow staring at the pancake
willow: i've, uh ... i've gotta get some sleep.
buffy: me too.
scene direction: buffy gets up painfully
amy: yeah.
scene direction: amy gets up
amy: i should go home. dad's expecting me.
willow: okay. i'll call you later.
scene direction: amy going to the door
amy: yeah, good.
scene direction: amy leaves. buffy looks at dawn.
buffy: you sure you're all right? i'm sorry about everything.
dawn: it's okay. you should rest. you're beat from monster-wrestling all night.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: yeah. right.
scene direction: buffy very quietly
buffy: thanks.
scene direction: buffy goes toward the front.
willow: yeah, i'm gonna crash too. night dawnie.
scene direction: willow follows buffy. dawn remains standing in the kitchen.
dawn: no problem. i'll just ...
scene direction: dawn to herself
dawn: go find some awake people.
scene change: cut to upstairs. willow walks into her room, closes the door, lies down on the bed fully dressed. she closes her eyes for a moment, opens them again.
scene direction: shot of the window with lots of light streaming in through the open curtains.
willow: claudete.
scene direction: she gestures at the window. nothing happens. she lifts her head and looks at the window.
scene direction: willow louder
willow: claudete!
scene direction: willow gestures
scene direction: still nothing.
scene direction: willow frowns, gets up tiredly, walks over and closes the curtains with her hands. goes back to the bed still frowning, lies down and closes her eyes.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. anya and xander sit at the round table looking at books.
xander: all these demons are starting to look alike. you got reptiles ... reptiles with horns ... reptiles with gills.
scene direction: shot of buffy standing by the counter looking at books, glancing over at xander.
xander: and i'm still finding nothing of the 'steal a diamond, freeze a guy' variety.
scene direction: shot of anya looking very interested in her book.
xander: ahn, would you hand me that one next to you?
scene direction: anya doesn't respond.
xander: great, we're not even married yet and already you've stopped listening to me.
scene direction: he reaches across her to get a book. as he picks it up, something falls out of it and onto the table.
scene direction: close shot of it. it's a magazine called "bride & joy."
scene direction: xander looks at it, puts his hand on the book anya's reading and tips it down. reveal that she's actually reading a bridal magazine hidden in the demon book.
xander: anya!
anya: i'm sorry, but this is pointless!
scene direction: anya buffy coming over
anya: we've been researching forever, and we're not even close to finding out who robbed that museum.
buffy: what's up?
xander: anya has a theory. she thinks that martha stewart froze that guy.
anya: don't be ridiculous. martha stewart isn't a demon.
scene direction: anya to buffy
anya: she's a witch.
xander: please, she-
scene direction: xander pauses
xander: really?
anya: of course. nobody could do that much decoupage without calling on the powers of darkness.
buffy: guys, while this is fascinating, we still have work to do.
anya: i know i do!
scene direction: anya looking at bridal magazine
anya: i can't decide whether to put my bridesmaids in cocktail dresses ...
scene direction: anya buffy and xander rolling their eyes
anya: ...or the traditional burlap with blood larva.
xander: the traditional what?
anya: well, i was a demon for a thousand years, you don't expect me to turn my back on all the ways of my people.
buffy: uh, can i weigh in on this whole me wearing larva-
anya and xander: no.
scene direction: buffy sighs in irritation, sits.
scene direction: anya to xander
anya: at least i'm not asking you to perform the groom's rite of self-flagellation.
scene direction: xander is about to reply but buffy interrupts.
buffy: uh, guys! there's something out there?
scene direction: buffy anya and xander looking embarrassed
xander: there is. and as much as i hate to admit that my ... bizarre bride-to-be has a point ... we're gettin' nowhere here, buff. maybe it's time to try something new. you know? hit the streets, get spike on it.
buffy: no! no, no spike. and no hit the streets, we, we, we stay put, you know? away from distractions. we'll figure this out.
anya: what about willow, can't she do something?
buffy: maybe. but she's home sleeping.
xander: sleeping? she sick?
buffy: no, she was out late. with amy.
scene direction: buffy xander looks annoyed
anya: and i'm bizarre. at least i didn't dump you to hang out with an ex-rat.
buffy: no, it's not like that, you know, she's just ... helping amy through a transition.
xander: and making herself a playmate to do magic with. someone who won't monitor her like tara.
buffy: no, willow's a grownup. you know, maybe she doesn't need to be monitored.
scene direction: xander stares at her.
buffy: you know, she's going through something, but we're not her. i mean ... m-maybe she has reasons for acting this way.
scene direction: buffy anya staring at her
buffy: and, so what if she crossed a line? you know, we all do stuff. stupid stuff. but, then we learn. and, and we learn, and, and we don't do it again. okay, so, you know, who are we to get all judgey?
xander: not judgey, buff. just, observey.
anya: yeah, all we're saying is, she's acting different. you know, she's not herself.
scene direction: anya and xander return to looking at books. buffy stares at them, looks contemplative.
scene change: cut to the street. amy and willow walk along, past the coffee shop. it's night. various people walking around, sitting and drinking coffee, etc.
amy: so what do you wanna do? it's gonna be hard to top last night.
willow: yeah, i don't know if i can. i felt awful today, and i couldn't do magic. took me all day to get my powers back. i think we should just take it easy.
scene direction: amy steps in front of her and stops
amy: i have a better idea.
willow: what?
amy: i know this guy ... and he knows spells that last for days. and the burnout factor is like, nothing.
willow: really? he's a warlock?
amy: i guess. look, i am not kidding you. this guy ... will blow your mind. he will take you to places that you can't even imagine.
scene direction: willow looks uncertain. she turns and resumes walking. amy falls into step beside her.
willow: is it dangerous?
amy: would that stop you?
scene direction: they walk on, out of shot.
scene change: cut to an alley. amy and willow walk out from between two buildings and turn toward an open space. they walk forward slowly.
amy: this is it.
willow: where? i thought you said the guy lived around here.
amy: he does.
scene direction: amy stops walking
amy: you can't feel it?
scene direction: we see a long stretch of alley in front of them, apparently empty.
willow: what do you-
scene direction: amy takes willow's hand and holds it up to the air, moves it horizontally.
amy: here.
willow: it's hot.
scene direction: amy grins excitedly, turns toward willow and walks backward into the open space.
amy: come on.
scene direction: the air ripples around her as she walks backward, and then she disappears.
scene direction: willow stares, puts out her hand and walks forward.
scene direction: her hand and arm, and then her whole body, ripple and disappear.
scene change: cut to inside a building. amy stands there smiling. she turns to look at the closed door.
scene direction: willow appears, coming through the door (the still closed door) still with her hand in front of her. the door ripples as she walks through it. she looks around wide-eyed.
scene direction: pan across the room. it's fairly run-down with some old chairs and sofas, old lamps, etc. we see a bunch of young people sitting on the sofas looking strung out.
amy: it's cool, isn't it? the place is cloaked.
willow: yeah.
amy: moves around a lot too. keeps rack out of trouble.
willow: rack, who's-
scene direction: they both turn as another door opens and a man comes out. he gives them a look and walks forward.
scene direction: girl anxious
girl: rack, rack, it's my turn.
guy: no, man, you said i was up.
girl: bull, i've been here for hours!
scene direction: rack ignores them, walks toward amy and willow. he has long stringy hair, an amulet around his neck, a scar on his face, and his eyes point in different directions.
rack: i believe these two are next.
scene direction: amy and willow exchange a look. amy looks pleased, willow nervous.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on the inner room of rack's place. willow, amy, and rack enter. willow still looks nervous. amy is removing her jacket. she wears a sleeveless top.
amy: thanks, rack, for taking us.
scene direction: amy puts her jacket down
amy: i know it's been a while. you'll never believe-
rack: you were a rat.
amy: how did you know?
scene direction: rack chuckling
rack: i hope that taught you not to mess with spells you can't handle. you should leave that in the hands of a professional.
scene direction: he rubs his hands together. little sparks of magic fly off them. willow watches with interest.
scene direction: rack continues to rub his hands together with magic effects. he stares at willow.
rack: oh. this one's givin' off vibes.
scene direction: rack walks closer
scene direction: willow nervous
willow: i don't mean to ... vibe at you, i, if it's in a negative way.
scene direction: rack walks around behind her
rack: no, no, i-i mean you ... have power, girl, it's just
scene direction: rack waving his hands around her body
rack: coming off you in waves.
scene direction: willow embarrassed
willow: not so much.
scene direction: rack walks around in front of her, stares at her. it's creepy.
willow: i mean, i-i can do stuff, but, i get tapped out quick, and i've used practically every spell i know.
rack: and what do you want me to do about that?
scene direction: willow uncertain
willow: i-i don't know, i, i thought-
scene direction: willow looks back at amy
willow: amy said-
rack: amy said. amy said i could help you. but did amy say how you could help me?
willow: no, i-i have some money, a-a bit-
scene direction: rack shakes head
rack: not money.
scene direction: willow nervous
willow: well, i could help you with your computer, i'm really handy-
scene direction: rack walks forward, holding out his hand toward her chest.
rack: just relax, i'm not gonna hurt you. you gotta give a little to get a little, right?
scene direction: willow looks very nervous, looks at amy.
scene direction: amy whispers
amy: it's okay. it's over fast.
scene direction: willow nods hesitantly, turns back to rack.
rack: that's right. i'm just gonna take a little tour.
scene direction: he puts his hand over willow's chest, not actually touching her.
scene direction: suddenly a bolt of magic goes from his hand into her body. willow gasps and closes her eyes. rack closes his eyes too. magic sparks and red light continue swirling around his hand and willow's body. both panting. amy watches intently.
scene direction: after a moment the magic breaks off and rack takes his hand back, opens his eyes, looks at willow, grins a little.
scene direction: he leans forward, puts his fingers on willow's chin and puts his face next to her, whispers in her ear.
rack: you taste ... like strawberries.
scene direction: he pulls back. willow still has her eyes closed with an expression of ecstasy.
scene change: cut to later. amy stands in the middle of the room spinning around and around with her arms held out at her sides. dreamy music.
scene direction: shot of rack reclining on a sofa nearby, holding in his hands what looks like a glass ball with a reflection of amy spinning around inside it.
scene direction: amy continues to spin faster and faster until she's a blur.
scene direction: rack looks upward. pan slowly up to reveal willow on the ceiling. she lies there with her shirt almost completely unbuttoned, her hair spread out across the ceiling. she writhes slowly, a small smile on her face.
scene direction: willow opens her eyes, looks down.
scene direction: shot of the room from her perspective with sofas around the perimeter and a round table in the middle of the room surrounded by cushions.
scene direction: bright green grass begins to sprout, covering the entire floor and all the furniture.
scene direction: willow closes her eyes again, rolls over onto her stomach on the ceiling. blurry motion suggesting the passing of time. she rolls back over onto her back.
scene direction: the grass and bright green trees and bushes continue to grow on the floor. willow continues to writhe in ecstasy on the ceiling.
scene direction: we see a figure of a person moving in the foliage but can't make it out.
scene direction: willow opens her eyes and looks.
scene direction: we see what looks like the bare legs of a person being dragged under a bush.
scene direction: willow frowns a little.
scene direction: then a red-skinned demon comes out from under the bush and snarls up at willow.
scene direction: willow gives a short scream and falls from the ceiling. she lands on her stomach on the floor. all the grass and greenery is gone -- it was a hallucination.
scene direction: willow just lies there on the floor. zoom in on her face. her eyes are closed.
scene direction: suddenly she blurs into motion. she's standing up, in a room full of people (the bronze?). her eyes are completely black.
scene direction: another blur of motion and suddenly she's standing on the street in front of the magic box, the store all lit up behind her. zoom in on willow. she pants and looks around, her eyes still black.
scene direction: another blur and she's back on the floor. she slowly opens her eyes, which are now normal. she frowns, gets up to a kneeling position. we see that she's in her bedroom. she kneels there panting and looking around with a frown.
scene change: cut to the bathroom. the shower is running. a pair of hands press against the wall underneath the showerhead. pan over to reveal willow standing with her face under the water, crying.
scene change: cut to the bedroom. willow walks out of the bathroom, wearing a red robe. she walks slowly into the room.
scene direction: we see a box of clothing with the word "tara" on it. willow slowly takes a sweater and skirt from the box, takes the clothing over to the bed and lays it out, sits on the bed beside it.
scene direction: she waves her hand over the clothing. slowly the fabric begins to billow up and fill out.
scene direction: the clothing animates and sits up. there's no head or hands, just the clothing filled with air.
scene direction: willow leans over and lays her head against the sweater's chest. the sleeves wrap around her like arms hugging.
scene change: cut to overhead shot of sunnydale. the sun is setting.
scene change: cut to external shot of the summers house.
scene change: cut to the kitchen. dawn stands at the stove with a pan. she uses her fingers to flip over a flat piece of bread on the pan.
dawn: ow.
scene direction: willow walks in.
dawn: ow, ow! ow.
scene direction: dawn sucks on her fingers
willow: or you could do it the hard way.
dawn: spatulas are for wimps. i'm making peanut-butter-and-banana quesadillas. you want?
scene direction: willow opens fridge
willow: no thanks. i'm, uh, more in water mode.
scene direction: willow takes out a bottle of water, walks over to the island and sits. dawn removes her food from the pan and puts it on a plate.
dawn: ow. ow. ow. you sure? it's my own brand-new invention.
willow: i'm sure. no, my ... tummy's feeling kinda rumbly.
scene direction: willow drinks water. dawn takes a bite of her creation.
scene direction: dawn mouth full
dawn: your loss. very delicious.
scene direction: dawn takes her plate and goes to sit beside willow.
dawn: buffy called. she said she was going straight from the magic box to do some patrolling.
willow: oh, did she need help?
dawn: no, she was just calling to check in. for like the tenth time today. i think she's feeling all joan crawford 'cause of the other night.
willow: yeah, about that, i'm ... i'm really sorry. i shouldn't have assumed buffy would be here.
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: right. assume would make you an ass out of me. heh, um, or, uh, something. anyway, please, it's cool. i mean, it's not like i even needed tara to stay over. i'm so totally fine on my own.
scene direction: willow nods and smiles.
scene direction: dawn anxiously
dawn: but, you are gonna be around tonight, right?
scene direction: dawn eating
scene direction: willow earnestly
willow: right, totally! uh, we can do something if you want. a movie maybe?
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: really? but i thought you weren't feeling so good.
willow: well ... nothing a little dawnie time won't fix.
scene direction: willow dawn smiles
willow: if you feel like baggin' the peanut butter, i'll even buy you dinner.
scene direction: dawn smiles with extreme relief.
dawn: thank god!
scene direction: dawn picks up her plate
dawn: remind me never to invent that again. yecch.
scene direction: she takes her plate to the trash and throws away her creation. willow drinks more water.
willow: great, this'll be great. i'll just grab the paper and see what's playing.
dawn: i'll leave a note for buffy on the refrigerator. that's the first place she goes after patrolling. she's such a pig after she kills things.
scene direction: willow goes off. dawn turns to write on a pad of paper attached to the fridge with a magnet.
scene change: cut to later. buffy enters the house. it's dark and quiet. she starts toward the kitchen, hears a noise from upstairs, pauses and frowns, looking up.
scene direction: buffy calls
buffy: hello?
scene direction: she starts up the stairs, her shoes making a lot of noise.
buffy: willow?
scene direction: she reaches the top, looks around the hall.
buffy: dawn?
scene direction: she starts into dawn's room, pauses, looks toward willow's room, moves in that direction.
scene change: cut to willow's room. the chest of magic supplies sits on the floor, its lid open, magic supplies strewn randomly around the floor. buffy walks over to it, squats down to look at it.
scene direction: we see a person sneaking out from behind the door.
scene direction: buffy whirls around, jumps up and grabs the person, pinning her against the wall. it's amy. she gasps. she's holding something against her chest with both hands.
buffy: what's going on?
scene direction: amy nervous
amy: uh-oh.
scene direction: amy nervous chuckle
amy: busted.
scene direction: buffy shakes her
buffy: where's willow?
scene direction: amy talking too fast, twitchy
amy: she said - she said i, i-i could-
scene direction: amy buffy grabbing the thing she's holding
amy: -wait!
buffy: what is this?
scene direction: it's a plastic baggie with some herbs in it. buffy tries to wrestle it out of amy's hand.
amy: it's not what you think it is, it's sage!
scene direction: buffy finally gets it free, sniffs it.
buffy: that is what i think it is.
scene direction: buffy tosses it aside, grabs amy again
buffy: what's going on? where's willow and dawn?
scene direction: amy rubs her arm nervously.
amy: i ... i saw - i saw her, but that was - i like your coat. when does the slayer find time to shop?
scene direction: buffy shakes her again, slamming her against the wall
buffy: so they didn't let you in?
scene direction: amy smiles nervously
amy: not that they know of.
buffy: what else did you take?
scene direction: amy shakes her head quickly
amy: nothing.
scene direction: amy buffy slams her against the wall again
amy: ow!
buffy: what else?!
scene direction: buffy lets go amy's arms and begins searching amy's pockets.
amy: please! please, i need this stuff. willow wants me to have it, she understands.
scene direction: buffy removes several plastic bags and glass vials from amy's pockets.
buffy: understands what? breaking into someone's house for kitchen spices?
scene direction: buffy tosses the stuff aside
buffy: no, i don't think so.
amy: you should. she's as bad as i am, worse.
scene direction: amy buffy frowns
amy: bet she's at rack's right now.
buffy: rack's?
amy: a place. he does spells, heavy stuff.
scene direction: amy resentfully
amy: willow's his new favorite.
buffy: she's there?
scene direction: buffy slams amy against the wall again
buffy: with dawn?
scene direction: buffy shakes amy
scene direction: amy sickly
amy: ohh, don't shake me again, super strength. i think i'm gonna boot.
buffy: then tell me where this place is, and i won't.
amy: well, it's downtown, but it moves.
buffy: what do you mean, it moves?
amy: it's downtown, i'm, i'm not sure where it would be tonight exactly-
scene direction: buffy shakes her
buffy: tell me how to find it.
amy: you just kinda have to feel it out ... oh god, i think i'm gonna-
scene direction: amy puts her hand over her mouth and rushes toward the bathroom. buffy looks disgusted, turns to leave.
scene change: cut to the street. willow and dawn walk along together.
willow: so, uh, the burger was good? you liked it?
scene direction: dawn smiling
dawn: are you kidding? it was like a meat party in my mouth.
scene direction: dawn pauses
dawn: okay, now i'm just a kid, and even *i* know that came out wrong.
scene direction: dawn willow gives a small smile
dawn: uh, it was good. but you should have had something.
willow: i will. i'll eat. i'm ... saving myself for popcorn.
scene direction: willow pauses
willow: the other day, you had fun?
scene direction: dawn frowns
dawn: mm, what other day? give me a mon or a fri here, something to work with.
willow: the other day with tara.
dawn: oh! uh, yeah. i-i mean, it was, it was nice. uh, but it wasn't a laugh riot. she's sad and everything.
willow: did she say something?
dawn: uh, not exactly. i can just tell, by the way she was acting.
willow: oh.
scene direction: willow seems distracted. dawn looks anxious.
dawn: uh, are you sure you're okay? you look a little-
willow: no, i'm fine. and tara's in her new place and everything, she's all settled in?
dawn: um ... we really didn't get into ... well...
scene direction: dawn looking around
dawn: is this right? i-is this the way to the movies?
willow: oh yeah, i'm, uh, i just, uh, took you the long way around. but we're almost there. i, uh, just have to make one quick stop first.
scene direction: willow walks into an alley. dawn frowns, follows.
scene change: cut to rack's place. willow and dawn come rippling through the wall and door. dawn looks around nervously.
dawn: what is this place? why is it hidden?
willow: i don't know, it's cool, isn't it? okay, you just hang here for a minute ... and i'll, i'll be back.
scene direction: willow starts to go, pauses
willow: you want me to conjure you a magazine or something?
dawn: well, what about the movie? it starts at nine.
scene direction: willow nodding, twitchy
willow: we'll make it. i, i'll just be a minute. and it doesn't matter if we miss the trailers.
scene direction: willow stumbles to the other door, opens it, goes in, closes it.
scene direction: dawn stares after her.
scene direction: dawn to herself
dawn: i like the trailers.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on dawn sitting on one of the sofas in rack's waiting room. she rubs her thighs nervously, looks up at the clock.
scene direction: close shot of the clock, which reads 10 05.
scene direction: dawn stares in front of her, fidgeting a little.
scene direction: a sleazy-looking guy comes and sits down next to her, putting his pack of cigarettes on the coffee table and one lit cigarette in his mouth. dawn looks disgusted, gets up and moves away. she walks over to a corner and stands there, hugging herself nervously.
scene change: cut to rack reclining on a sofa.
rack: what do you think, strawberry?
scene direction: rack magic sparkles on his hand
rack: can you handle some more?
scene direction: he shoots a bolt of magic upward. peppy rock music begins.
scene direction: pan along the stream of magic light to reveal willow hovering in midair, surrounded by a bubble of magic. the stream coming from rack's hand adds to the bubble.
scene direction: close shot of willow's face with her eyes closed.
scene change: cut to a view of outer space. blackness and stars all around, stars moving past. the music changes to something dreamy and futuristic. willow's erratic breathing is very loud.
scene direction: willow floats in the starscape, dreamily. she reaches out her hand to touch some of the stars.
scene direction: suddenly a bright red rift appears ahead of her. willow frowns, her eyes still closed.
scene direction: the same demon from her other hallucination walks through the rift, holding a woman in his arms. the woman dangles limply as if dead.
scene direction: willow screams.
scene direction: cut back to rack lying there watching her. he smiles as willow's scream continues.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. spike lies in bed sleeping. a large pillar candle suddenly flies over and hits him in the stomach. he sits up, startled.
scene direction: reveal buffy standing at the foot of the bed holding another candle. there are a few more candles on the table by the bed.
buffy: god, do you sleep through anything? i was like yelling, and nothing.
scene direction: buffy puts candle down
scene direction: spike sits up on the edge of the bed. he's completely naked.
spike: i'm a bit knackered. had a long night.
scene direction: spike leers
scene direction: buffy scowls, turns to grab something.
spike: someone should teach you how to use candles in foreplay, luv.
scene direction: buffy throws his pants at him.
buffy: get dressed. dawn's missing.
spike: again? ever think about a lojack for the girl?
scene direction: spike buffy just looks at him
spike: what's the story?
buffy: she went out with willow.
spike: willow?
scene direction: spike grinning
spike: that's kind of a sorry excuse to come by. if you want the touch all you need to do is-
buffy: spike. willow's into something. okay, her and dawn have been missing for hours. there, there's some guy named rack.
scene direction: spike frowns
spike: rack?
buffy: yeah, he's, uh, some sort of-
spike: i know who he is, he deals in magic. black stuff, dangerous.
buffy: i've been all over downtown and i can't find his place.
spike: because he cloaks it. you can't feel it unless you're into the big bad - a witch or a vampire or-
buffy: so let's go!
scene direction: spike stands up, still naked. buffy quickly turns her back.
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: oh, that's right. hide your blushing eyes.
scene change: cut to rack's place. dawn still stands there fidgeting. she looks up at the clock. it now shows almost 11.
scene direction: dawn sighs, fidgets, looks around. starts walking toward the rear door.
sleazy cigarette guy: hey, wait your turn.
scene direction: as dawn approaches the door, it suddenly opens and willow comes out, smiling.
willow: hey dawnie. it's movie time.
scene direction: dawn angrily
dawn: do you know how long i've been out here? it's too late for the movie. and that guy smells like-
scene direction: dawn notices that willow's eyes are completely black.
scene direction: dawn nervous
dawn: are-are you, are you okay?
willow: fine. let's get outta here.
scene direction: willow turns to leave. dawn looks anxious, follows.
scene change: cut to the two of them walking down the alley. willow walks unsteadily, occasionally bumping into dawn.
willow: so, what do you wanna do, cutie?
scene direction: willow smiling
scene direction: dawn sullen
dawn: it's late. i just wanna go home.
willow: uch! no way! i said we were gonna have fun, and we're gonna have fun.
scene direction: shot of the two of them from the back, pov of someone watching and following them. cut back to the front view.
scene direction: dawn nervous
dawn: i'm serious, i think we should just get out of here.
scene direction: willow mocking
willow: ' i think we should just get out of here.'
scene direction: willow another shot from behind
willow: come on, dawnie, it's grownup time, do you wanna play with the grownups or not?
scene direction: dawn looks upset. another shot from behind as whatever's following them gets closer.
dawn: why are you acting this way?
willow: oh, don't get all weird on me, we're fine. everything's fine.
scene direction: another shot from behind. now we see the thing following them, although it's hidden by shadows. it's definitely demon-shaped. it snarls and continues following.
scene change: cut to a different street. buffy and spike walk along, peering into alleys.
buffy: anything?
spike: not yet. i might pick up on it if you stop asking me about every two seconds.
buffy: spike, if you're dragging this out...
scene direction: spike rolls his eyes and stops walking. buffy walks around in front of him, turns to face him.
spike: what, so i can linger near your precious self? get a grip.
buffy: like you've never drawn things out before.
spike: maybe, but we've been through this, haven't we? things have changed.
buffy: will you quit that? the only thing that's different is that i'm disgusted with myself. that's the power of your charms. last night ... was the most perverse ... degrading experience of my life.
scene direction: spike smiles fondly
spike: yeah. me too.
scene direction: spike resumes walking
scene direction: buffy walks alongside him
buffy: that might be how you get off, but it's not my style.
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: no, it's your calling. gave me a run for my money, slayer.
scene direction: they walk in silence for a moment.
spike: now, i admit it. you've had me by the short hairs.
scene direction: spike softly
spike: i love you.
scene direction: spike glances at her
spike: you know it. but i got my rocks back. you felt something last night.
buffy: not love.
spike: not yet. but i'm in your system now. you're gonna crave me, like i crave blood. and the next time you come crawling, if you don't stop being such a bitch, maybe i will bite you.
scene direction: buffy stares, stops walking
buffy: that, that's it! i want you out of my life! out of my work, out of my home-
spike: too late for that. you invited me in already.
scene direction: spike buffy scowls
spike: and as for your work, you need me. like tonight.
buffy: i'll find dawn myself.
scene direction: spike rolls eyes
spike: you really gonna put your little sis in danger just to spite me?
scene direction: buffy glares.
scene change: cut to dawn and willow still walking. dawn looks extremely nervous.
dawn: willow.
scene direction: dawn shot of willow staggering along
dawn: i'm serious. i'm going home.
willow: uch, then go! god, i thought we were gonna hang.
scene direction: dawn alarmed
dawn: well, you're not coming with me?
willow: well, i don't know.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: maybe i could just, uh, pop you back!
dawn: with magic?
scene direction: dawn shakes head in disgust
scene direction: suddenly dawn hears a noise. she stops, looking very fearful.
dawn: what's that?
willow: what? i didn't-
dawn: uh ... i'm getting out of here.
scene direction: dawn begins to walk, very fast.
willow: aw, dawnie, don't. it was probably a cat or something like that.
scene direction: dawn turns to look back at willow, turns back again and the demon steps out in front of her. it's the same demon from willow's two hallucinations earlier. dawn moves back, staring in horror. willow looks alarmed, comes up to her.
willow: oh, it's okay, he's not real.
scene direction: dawn scared
dawn: seems real! very! real!
demon: you summoned me, witch.
scene direction: willow nervous, moving back
willow: i, i didn't-
demon: did. you raised hell with your magicks.
scene direction: the demon growls, reaches out with a clawed hand and slashes dawn's cheek. she shrieks. willow moves in front of her. the demon holds his bloody finger up to his face.
demon: fresh.
willow: don't! she has nothing to do with it, it was me!
demon: yessss.
scene direction: dawn cowers behind willow as the demon approaches.
scene direction: suddenly dawn kicks out her foot, catching the demon square in the middle. he flies back into a pile of garbage. dawn and willow run off.
scene direction: the demon gets up and runs after them.
scene change: cut to another street. dawn and willow come running around the corner.
dawn: he's coming! he's too fast!
willow: open!
scene direction: we see a parked car. the doors swing open.
willow: get in!
scene direction: willow and dawn jump into the car, willow in the driver's seat, dawn in the passenger seat.
willow: close!
scene direction: the doors close. the demon comes running around the corner.
willow: drive!
scene direction: the car starts up and takes off with an extended screech of tires.
scene direction: the demon continues running after the car.
scene direction: willow sits in the driver's seat laughing. dawn stares at her in horror.
dawn: what are you doing?!
scene direction: we see willow moving her hand in front of the steering wheel. the wheel turns in the direction she moves her hand, making the car veer crazily from side to side.
scene direction: dawn holds onto the sides of the car and screams. the demon continues pursuing.
willow: woo!
scene direction: willow laughing
scene direction: dawn stares at willow, terrified. the car zooms down the street and into an alley. dawn continues screaming.
scene direction: willow looking back over her shoulder
willow: take that, scuz-
scene direction: the car goes into an alley, through an arched entrance, and slams into a concrete pillar.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. the car sits with its entire front end smashed in, smoke curling up from it.
scene direction: pan in closer and we can see dawn still in her seat. no sign of willow. dawn lifts her head and groans.
dawn: oh god.
scene direction: she gets her door open and climbs out, clutching her left arm with an expression of pain. there's blood on her face. she limps slowly around the front of the car, looks over at the car and rushes over to the driver's-side door. we get a quick glimpse of willow slumped over the steering wheel.
scene direction: the demon appears, leaping down right in front of dawn. she screams and pushes him away. she drops to the ground and begins crawling underneath the car.
scene direction: the demon crawls over and grabs dawn's leg.
scene change: cut to buffy and spike walking along. sound of dawn screaming. they both look to their right, exchange a quick look and rush off toward the sound.
scene direction: cut back to the alley. dawn screams and kicks as the demon drags her out from under the car. her fists clutch at the ground.
scene direction: the demon pulls her all the way out and she throws a handful of dirt in his face. he lets her go and rubs at his eyes. dawn gets up and tries to run away, but he grabs her. dawn shrieks and hits at him with her fists.
scene direction: the demon backhands her and she flies quite a way down the alley, lands on the ground. she gets up on all fours and tries to crawl toward the stone wall.
scene direction: the demon comes over with one leap and snarls at her.
buffy: dawn!
scene direction: buffy tackles the demon, carrying him away from dawn. they both roll, get up. buffy punches him and they both go down again. lying on the ground, she tries to kick him but he grabs her leg and shoves it away, gets up. buffy gets up too, kicks the demon.
scene direction: spike crouches next to dawn to look at her injuries.
scene direction: buffy ducks a couple of swings and then punches the demon. he punches her, then she kicks him and uses her leg to sweep his feet out from under him. he goes down. buffy tries to grab him but he flings her off. she flies a few feet backward, lands in a crouch. she gets up and does a flying kick, then the demon grabs her shoulders but she breaks free and punches him. he punches her in the face, picks her up and throws her at the stone ceiling. she hits the ceiling and falls to the ground, gets up and faces off with the demon again.
scene direction: the demon growls and snarls, but as he advances, he begins to tremble all over.
scene direction: buffy bemused
buffy: *now* you're scared?
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: better late than never.
scene direction: buffy frowns as the demon begins to scream and steam comes off of him. he dissolves into a shower of sparks and smoke.
scene direction: reveal willow standing behind where the demon was. magic sparks still crackle around her fingers. she walks forward and leans heavily against the wall. her eyes are completely black and there's blood on her face.
scene direction: buffy stares at her. willow stands there panting.
scene direction: dawn os
dawn: no, no!
buffy: dawn.
scene direction: buffy rushes over. dawn still sits on the ground cradling her arm against her stomach, crying, with spike hovering beside her.
buffy: what happened? are you okay?
scene direction: dawn crying
dawn: uh ... he was after willow, she made the car drive, don't!
scene direction: dawn buffy tries to look at her injured arm
dawn: no, don't!
buffy: i need to see, okay, let me see your arm.
scene direction: buffy murmurs reassuringly and tries to pull dawn's arm gently away from her body. willow rushes up.
willow: dawn? oh god, there's blood.
scene direction: willow dawn crying
scene direction: buffy to spike
buffy: okay, we need to get her to a doctor.
willow: is she okay? is she okay?
scene direction: buffy and spike help dawn stand up.
buffy: back off, will, i got her.
scene direction: buffy, dawn, and spike begin walking. willow watches anxiously.
willow: no, dawnie!
buffy: i mean it, stay away from her!
scene direction: willow runs around in front of them.
scene direction: willow crying
willow: dawnie! dawnie, i'm so sorry!
scene direction: willow dawn glaring at her
willow: i'm so sorry, it was an accident! i didn't see, i'm so, so sorry.
scene direction: beat. dawn glares angrily at willow. then dawn slaps her across the face.
scene direction: willow shocked
willow: dawnie! dawnie, don't!
scene direction: the others resume walking as willow continues to cry and beg.
willow: dawnie, i'm sorry, i'm sorry, i'm sorry...
scene direction: willow falls to the ground crying hysterically.
willow: i'm sorry! i'm sorry...
scene direction: willow crying
scene direction: the others pause. spike looks at buffy, gives a slight nod, leads dawn away.
scene direction: buffy turns to look at willow, walks slowly over to her with a stern expression.
scene direction: buffy harshly
buffy: get up.
scene direction: willow crying
willow: i screwed it up, everything, tara...
scene direction: buffy grabs willow's arm, pulls her to her feet
buffy: yeah, you know what, you did screw up, okay? you could have killed her! you almost did!
scene direction: willow crying
willow: i know! i know! i can't stop, buffy! i tried and i can't.
buffy: you can.
scene direction: willow shakes head
willow: i can't! i can't, i ju ... god, i need help. please!
scene direction: willow sobbing
willow: please help me, please.
scene direction: willow puts her arms around buffy and continues crying.
willow: please.
scene direction: buffy slowly lifts her arms and hugs willow back. willow continues crying.
scene change: cut to the summers house. willow sits on her bed, a blanket wrapped around her, her eyes closed. zoom in slowly on her.
scene direction: buffy appears in background, in the doorway, leans against the wall with her arms crossed. willow opens her eyes, looks over.
willow: is she okay?
buffy: she's sleeping. the e.r. doc gave her something for the pain, it knocked her out.
scene direction: willow anxious
willow: but she's gonna be all right?
buffy: it's a fracture. you know, it's gonna take some time.
scene direction: willow looks away, whispers
willow: god, i'm ... sorry. i'm so...
buffy: i just don't understand. i don't understand why you'd go to see somebody like rack, and i certainly don't understand why you'd drag dawn into it.
willow: i don't know. the magic, i ... i thought i had it under control, and then ... i didn't.
buffy: because of tara?
willow: no. it started before she left.
scene direction: willow pauses
willow: it's why she left.
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: seemed like things were going so well.
willow: it was. but i mean ... if you could be ... you know, plain old willow or super willow, who would you be?
scene direction: willow looks at buffy
willow: i guess you don't actually have an option on the whole super thing.
buffy: will, there's nothing wrong with you. you don't need magic to be special.
willow: don't i? i mean, buffy, who was i? just ... some girl. tara didn't even know that girl.
buffy: you are more than some girl.
scene direction: buffy walks into the room
buffy: and tara wants you to stop. she loves you.
willow: we don't know that.
buffy: i know that. i promise you.
willow: i just ... it took me away from myself, i was ... free.
scene direction: buffy looks down, pensive
buffy: i get that. more than you-
scene direction: buffy breaks off
buffy: but it's wrong. people get hurt.
scene direction: buffy goes to sit beside willow on the bed.
willow: if something had happened to dawn tonight ... something worse...
buffy: i know.
willow: no, i don't think you do. i-i ... i was out of my mind, i ... i did things i can't even...
scene direction: buffy continues looking pensive.
willow: it won't happen again, i promise. no more spells. i'm finished.
scene direction: buffy frowns
buffy: good. i think it's right. to give it up.
scene direction: buffy pensive
buffy: no matter how good it feels.
willow: it's not worth it. not if it messes with the people i love.
scene direction: buffy still has her pensive expression, not exactly thinking about willow's issues.
willow: the magic wasn't all great. i won't miss the nosebleeds and the headaches and stuff.
buffy: there you go.
willow: or ... keeping stinky yak cheese in my bra.
scene direction: willow buffy frowns
willow: don't ask.
buffy: now i don't have to.
willow: 'cause it's over.
buffy: exactly. it's over.
scene direction: they both nod and give each other nervous looks, tentative smiles. then both look away and stop smiling.
scene change: cut to later. willow lies in bed panting and sweaty, staring at the ceiling, one hand clutching her stomach, the other clenched into a fist on the pillow.
scene change: cut to buffy's room. pan across the windows. on each window several strings of garlic cloves are hanging.
scene direction: pan down to reveal buffy sitting on her bed, knees drawn up to her chest, twirling a cross in her hands. there's garlic festooning the bedframe as well. buffy hugs her knees, looks around nervously.
scene direction: blackout.
scene direction: in loving memory of j.d. peralta.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon.
scene direction: the end