scene direction: episode opens on buffy, xander, and anya running through the woods. after a few moments xander stops, leaning against a tree.
xander: i think i'm gonna be sick.
anya: again?
buffy: xander, we don't have time.
scene direction: xander panting
xander: i know, it's just ... what happened back there, the sounds of it. the smell.
scene direction: xander anya looking impatient
buffy: i know.
xander: willow did that.
buffy: that's why we have to keep moving.
scene direction: buffy puts her hand on xander's shoulder and coaxes him back into motion.
buffy: you heard what she said, "one down."
anya: so we're talking about "two to go," right, jonathan and whatshisface, the other guy.
buffy: andrew. they're sitting at county jail without a clue willow's coming.
xander: you don't think she's gonna kill them too? she wouldn't. it doesn't make sense.
buffy: willow's got an addictive personality, and she just tasted blood. she could be there already.
anya: no. she couldn't, a witch at her level. she can only go airborne.
scene direction: anya they stop walking and look at her
anya: it's a thing. more flashy, impresses the locals, but it does take longer.
xander: longer than what?
anya: teleporting.
scene direction: and anya disappears in a swirl of magic.
xander: right. vengeance demon.
scene direction: xander sarcastic
xander: well, at least she'll get there first.
buffy: i'm counting the ways that could go wrong.
scene direction: buffy they resume walking
xander: well, anya can handle herself.
buffy: against willow? tonight ? don't be too sure.
xander: well ... she should be coming down at some point, shouldn't she? i mean, back there she was out of her head ... running on grief and magicks.
buffy: doesn't matter . willow just killed someone. killing people changes you. believe me, i know.
xander: warren was a cold-blooded killer of women just warming up. you ask me, that bastard had it coming to him.
buffy: maybe. andrew and jonathan don't.
scene direction: they walk a moment in silence.
xander: this is still willow we're dealing with, right?
buffy: i hope so. whatever she's going through, we have to stop her. and maybe we can actually do that if we can get to your...
scene direction: they pause, looking at something ahead.
scene direction: shot of a car half-hidden by bushes, with smoke coming out of the hood. the camera pans around and we see that there's also a large hole in the windshield.
buffy: ...car.
xander: willow.
buffy: i guess she wants to finish the job without us tagging along.
scene direction: buffy looks at xander
buffy: meet me at the jail.
xander: sure, how are you gonna...
scene direction: buffy starts running. she does a huge leap over the car and surrounding bushes and runs off at slayer-speed.
scene direction: xander calls after her
xander: okay, then, i'll just ... catch up. she's only my best friend, you know. no big deal, just...
scene direction: he trails off in frustration. he has walked up to the car and now he slams his fist down on its lid angrily. then winces in pain.
xander: ...glad i could help.
scene direction: wolf howl, opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on exterior shot of the sunnydale police station, night.
scene change: cut to inside, lobby. various cops and civilians going around doing paperwork, etc.
scene change: cut to the hallway on the cell block. a guard sits at a desk at the end of the hall. a janitor goes by, mopping the floor.
scene direction: we see jonathan standing by the bars of his cell, holding the bars, while in the background andrew is sitting on the lower bunk bed holding his wrist up to his ear.
andrew: dude. move like, a foot to your left.
scene direction: jonathan not moving
jonathan: what for?
andrew: i'm trying to hear something.
jonathan: like what?
scene direction: andrew prods his wrist.
scene direction: andrew conspiratorially
andrew: signals.
jonathan: oh, for crying out loud.
scene direction: jonathan turns to face andrew
jonathan: signals? who from, your probe-happy alien friends? say, maybe we can trade a pack of cigarettes in for tin foil. make you a nice antenna hat.
andrew: laugh it up, fuzzball. i figured it out.
scene direction: andrew softly
andrew: warren never abandoned us. well, not me, anyway. this is like his test. if we can figure out how he's communicating with us, then we'll be, you know, worthy.
scene direction: jonathan incredulous
jonathan: you're checking for implants?
scene direction: andrew defensive
andrew: lex luthor had a false epidermis escape kit in "superman versus the amazing spider-man" treasury edition-
jonathan: okay, first of all, those were sonic disrupters. and second of all ... you are sadness personified. waiting for warren? yeah, maybe he'll come bust us out of here on santa's magic sleigh.
scene direction: andrew stands up angrily
andrew: i'm telling him you said that.
jonathan: why wait? i'll tell him right now.
scene direction: jonathan grabs andrew's elbow and holds it up to his own face.
jonathan: hey, warren, do you read me, your girlfriend's pathetic, over.
scene direction: andrew pulls his arm away
andrew: shut up, jerk-athan! you see this? this is why we get jet packs and all you get is left behind.
jonathan: so you admit it.
scene direction: andrew shrugs
andrew: why not? you were out of the trio a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away and you know why, little feller? no respect for the chain of command.
jonathan: yeah, see how far it's gotten you. checking every hole in your sad little body for transmitters that don't exist.
andrew: oh i'll find it if i have to check every hole in my body and yours.
scene direction: andrew shoves jonathan. jonathan slaps at him. they grapple and start to fight, geek-style.
jonathan: get off!
andrew: make me!
scene direction: suddenly anya appears in their cell in a swirl of magic. the blast throws the two nerds against the bars.
anya: there you two are.
scene direction: andrew to jonathan
andrew: you do that?
scene direction: andrew jonathan shaking his head
anya: listen to me. we have to get you out of here or you'll both be killed.
scene direction: anya calls
anya: guard!
jonathan: what's going on?
anya: guard!
andrew: stop that!
scene direction: andrew to jonathan
andrew: i don't trust her. do you trust her? this is major uncool.
jonathan: um, anya, you're gonna have to break this down for us a little.
scene direction: anya annoyed
anya: warren shot buffy. warren shot tara. buffy's alive. tara's dead. willow found out, and being the most powerful wicca in the western hemisphere, decided to get the payback. with interest.
scene direction: jonathan looks sobered.
andrew: wh-what about warren?
anya: she killed him. ripped him apart and bloodied up the forest doing it. now she's coming here and the two of you are next.
andrew: oh my god ... warren.
jonathan: oh my god ... me.
scene direction: jonathan turns to the bars and yells
jonathan: guard!
andrew: but we didn't do anything.
jonathan: guard!
scene direction: the policeman at the desk gets up and walks over.
officer: all right, all right, what do you...
scene direction: he sees anya in the cell and pauses, confused.
officer: who the hell are you?
anya: something's coming. something bad. you have to let these men out of here or i guarantee you there will be hell to pay.
officer: okay, uh ... what exactly's coming?
anya: one of the many things in this world you are not prepared to deal with.
scene direction: officer scoffs
officer: that a fact?
anya: yes. and we're running out of time. so just believe me when i tell you...
scene direction: she quickly teleports herself out of the cage and reappears standing next to the guard.
anya: ...these things are real. they're dangerous. and they're coming.
scene change: cut to outside. a cop sits in his police car looking at some paperwork. he looks up at the dashboard.
scene direction: a cup of coffee sits on the dashboard. slowly it begins to jiggle, the coffee sloshing around in the cup. the cop stares at it.
scene direction: suddenly a flash of lightning illuminates his face. he looks out the car window to his left.
scene direction: in the street a few feet away there's a whirling tornado of gray smoke, with lightning flashing around it. it coalesces into willow. leaves and random trash go flying down the street in the wind.
scene direction: the cop gets out of his car quickly.
cop: what the hell was that?
scene direction: willow walks toward him. her eyes are normal at this point though her hair is still completely black.
cop: listen, i don't know what you think you're doing, but just-
willow: take a nap.
scene direction: the cop falls down on the ground.
scene direction: willow looks up at the police station building. she walks back a few steps to size it up. it's mostly brick, with large arched windows that have been bricked over.
scene direction: cut back to the cell block.
anya: ...so please, stop looking at me like it's your first trip to the circus and do your job. let them out!
scene direction: cut back to outside. willow stands on the street, staring up at the second story of the building.
scene direction: suddenly one of the bricks covering a window flies out.
scene direction: cut back to the cell. the brick that came out was in the rear wall of andrew and jonathan's cell. they turn around to look, as a few more bricks come out too.
scene direction: willow watches as more bricks come out of the wall, falling to shatter on the ground in front of her.
scene direction: andrew and jonathan flatten themselves against the bars, as far from the wall as they can get. the wall continues to come apart.
officer: you three stay here.
andrew: oh, like we have a choice!
officer: don't move. you'll be safe here.
scene direction: the cop puts a hand on his gun and runs off.
anya: are you even listening?! this is the one place they won't be safe!
scene direction: cut back to outside. willow continues staring fixedly at the building. bricks continue to pop out. now a piece of the surrounding wall falls out as well.
scene direction: another big chunk of the wall comes out and falls onto a parked police car underneath. more cops begin to rush out from the building, yelling.
scene direction: willow puts up a hand.
willow: back off.
scene direction: a cop goes flying backward and slams into another car. the other cops keep coming. another one of them goes flying. one of the remaining cops turns to stop the ones coming out from the building.
cop: hold it!
scene direction: the remaining cops stop several yards away from willow, pointing their guns at her and yelling.
scene direction: cut back to the cell as the wall continues to come apart.
scene direction: andrew scared
andrew: stop it, just stop!
scene direction: andrew to jonathan
andrew: why is she doing this? tell her, we didn't do anything.
jonathan: yes we did. we signed on, we teamed up, we wanted to see where our plans would take us, well take a look.
scene direction: another shot of the wall being ripped apart.
jonathan: this is it.
andrew: maybe for you.
scene change: cut to outside. a bunch of cops are lined up facing willow, pointing guns at her.
scene direction: buffy comes running up and stops beside the building, peering around the corner at the scene. we see it from buffy's point of view - willow standing surrounded by bricks and pieces of mortar, the crowd of cops pointing guns at her and yelling, other cops helping each other up off the ground.
scene direction: buffy turns and finds a door right behind her. she puts her hand on the knob.
scene direction: cut back to the cell.
andrew: anya. teleport us out of here, please. take us with you.
anya: i can't. it doesn't work that way.
andrew: oh, god.
scene direction: andrew more pieces of the wall coming off
andrew: help!
scene change: cut to the lobby. more cops go running across, headed for the front. various sounds of yelling. behind them a door smashes open, kicked by buffy. she runs in, vaults over a divider wall, runs to the stairs and starts up.
scene change: cut to outside. willow is still looking up at the hole in the building as a crowd of cops gathers in front of her, pointing guns and yelling.
scene direction: willow puts her hands out and down by her hips, and lifts up into the air, floating toward the hole.
scene change: cut to the cell. willow appears in the hole in the wall, grabs the sides of it and climbs inside.
scene direction: the cell is empty. willow looks around, then sees that the cell bars have been bent aside, making a hole.
willow: buffy.
scene direction: reveal anya standing in the hallway just beyond the bars.
anya: willow , just stop for a second and listen to-
scene direction: willow lifts her hands and hits anya with a blast of magic. anya flies backward and hits the opposite wall, falls down unconscious.
scene direction: willow turns away and screams a shrill, loud scream of anger.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene change: same scene - willow still screaming. cut to the street. buffy, jonathan, and andrew come out of the police station through the same door that buffy entered earlier. willow's scream is audible. andrew has his hands over his ears.
andrew: aah! what is that sound? god, it kills.
buffy: we have to make a run for it.
scene direction: buffy peeks around the corner. we see the cops still gathered by the front door, holding their guns and staring upward. some cops covering their ears.
andrew: are you kidding? she's like dark phoenix up there! you expect us just to outrun her?
buffy: pretty much.
scene direction: a police car comes roaring up behind them. we see xander at the wheel.
xander: get in.
scene direction: buffy pushes andrew and jonathan toward the door. they start to climb into the car. buffy runs around to the other side.
scene direction: the car starts moving with buffy not yet in. it starts around the corner toward the gathered cops. buffy runs alongside, gets the door open and jumps in. the car speeds off. a couple of cops yell and chase it briefly. the screaming noise continues throughout all this.
scene change: cut to a little later. the car drives down a dark street.
buffy: is she coming?
scene direction: xander checking rear-view mirror
xander: i don't see anything.
scene direction: buffy to jonathan and andrew in the back seat
buffy: are you guys all right?
scene direction: they stare at her. she realizes it was a dumb question.
buffy: are you injured?
jonathan: i, i don't think so.
andrew: where are you taking us?
scene direction: buffy pauses
buffy: we'll find someplace safe and we'll keep you there until we can stop willow.
andrew: run and hide, that's your brilliant plan?
jonathan: i don't believe this.
xander: boys, if you don't knock it off, i will pull this car over and you can just walk to your painful deaths from here.
scene change: cut to the police station. willow walks out the front door. she pauses, looks around, starts off in the direction the car went.
scene direction: cut back to the car.
jonathan: i don't get it. willow's a witch. why doesn't she just , you know, wave her arms and make us dead?
buffy: because she doesn't want you dead. she wants to kill you.
andrew: but we didn't do anything.
scene direction: buffy twists around in her seat and punches andrew in the face.
scene direction: andrew whiny
andrew: ow!
xander: hate to admit it, buff, but jonathan may have a point. why isn't she right here right now?
scene direction: buffy uncertain
buffy: maybe she's just getting her mojo up and running. or maybe she hasn't figured out exactly how much power she really has yet.
scene direction: buffy beat
buffy: neither have we.
xander: guess we keep running, then.
jonathan: i still can't believe that was willow. i mean, i've known her almost as long as you guys. willow was ... you know. she packed her own lunches and wore floods and was always... just willow.
scene direction: beat. both buffy and xander look pensive.
scene direction: suddenly the entire car shakes violently. we see something behind it, very close. xander looks in the mirror.
jonathan: geez it!
andrew: what was that?
scene direction: reveal a large truck behind the car, with willow standing on top of the truck's cab. her eyes are all-black again. she holds her hands in front of her, elbows extended, palms facing out.
xander: just willow.
scene direction: the truck races along immediately behind the car. pan down from willow to reveal the truck driver, struggling with the steering wheel, then giving up and throwing his hands up in the air.
scene direction: buffy and xander look nervously at their side mirrors. shot of the truck from the rear window of the car. the truck's grille looms very close.
scene direction: the truck speeds up and rams the back of the car a second time. xander looks scared, keeps the car under control. the truck rams the car again.
xander: o-okay, any ideas?
buffy: drive faster.
scene direction: the car speeds up and pulls ahead. but then the truck speeds up and catches up again. another hit. the bumper of the car comes partly detached and scrapes along the ground. the truck hits the car yet again. everyone in the car looks scared.
xander: this is faster!
jonathan: she knows you're in this car too, right?
scene direction: they look back at the truck.
jonathan: right?!
scene direction: buffy looks back nervously.
scene direction: shot of willow grimacing, hunching over a little.
jonathan: she's draining.
xander: she's what-ing?
scene direction: willow grimaces more, falls down to a sitting position on top of the truck.
jonathan: just keep going.
scene direction: long shot of the car and truck rounding a corner onto a wide, deserted four-lane road. the car's bumper still drags behind, throwing up sparks. xander concentrates on his driving.
scene direction: shot of willow now on all fours and staring at the car, still grimacing. buffy, andrew, and jonathan watch anxiously from within the car.
scene direction: the truck driver yanks at the wheel and finds it responding now. he swerves left, then right. much screeching of tires. the truck comes to a stop. the car continues speeding away.
scene direction: the driver gives a sigh of relief.
scene direction: andrew and jonathan watch through the rear window of the car.
scene direction: andrew relieved laugh
andrew: cool.
scene direction: the car speeds on, the bumper finally detaching completely and lying in the middle of the road.
scene change: cut to spike's crypt. dawn is standing by the windows, looking out nervously, fidgeting.
scene direction: clem o.s.
clem: not that i'm knocking the nacho cheese ones. i like the taste. it's just the texture i can't deal with.
scene direction: dawn ignores him. reveal clem with two separate bowls of chips in front of him. he picks up a chip and eats it, contemplating.
clem: so gritty.
scene direction: clem dawn looking at him
clem: kinda hurts my tongue. so, i'd give 'em a seven. maybe a seven-five ... and, you think this is dumb, don't you?
dawn: uh, no! no, as taste tests go, this is definitely one of the better ones i've been to. clem: i get it. no biggie.
scene direction: dawn sighs
dawn: uh, you wanna play cards?
dawn: clem...
clem: i can be a real boredom-buster, if you just give me half a chance.
dawn: it's not you.
clem: still, i feel responsible.
scene direction: clem walking over to her
clem: it's not fair ... girl your age, cooped up in a crypt. tell you what, let me get my hat and coat, i'll take you to a movie. we'll go nuts!
scene direction: clem coaxing
clem: pg-thirteen.
scene direction: dawn frustrated
dawn: clem!
clem: uh-huh?
dawn: look at me. do i look weak to you? o-or incapable?
clem: heck no.
dawn: so why am i stuck here?
scene direction: clem shrugs
clem: no good reason i can see.
scene direction: clem sighs
clem: i'm still real sorry about what happened. if there's anything i can do to help ... just name it.
scene direction: dawn sly
dawn: anything?
clem: ohh ... you're not going to get yourself in trouble now, are you? or me? 'cause your sister's the slayer; i'm a demon, that's real good incentive to get along with her.
dawn: i need a demon to help me.
scene direction: she walks a little ways toward the door.
dawn: spike would have.
clem: spike's gone.
scene direction: dawn looks upset.
scene change: cut to the african cave. it's very dark. spike stands there, shirtless and barefoot, wearing his black pants, pacing a little. the shadowy demon from "villains" speaks to him.
demon: you understand, then.
spike: yeah.
scene direction: spike bored
spike: yeah, it's not like you haven't been clear about it, oh great mysterious one. this is a test. i don't get what i want unless i pass said test. that about the size and shape?
demon: yes.
spike: and since your pad is decked out gladiator-style, and no number two pencils have been provided ... i guess we're not starting with the written.
scene direction: spike looks around nervously. a person walks up behind him. spike turns and sees him. he appears to be human, but very large and muscular.
spike: oh, here we go then. just me and the walking action figure. i'm venturing this would be the kill-or-be-killed type of situation, then?
demon: to the death.
spike: right.
scene direction: spike faces his opponent, anticipating.
spike: here we are now. entertain us.
scene direction: the muscled man holds up his fists and smacks his forearms together. both his hands burst into flame. spike looks alarmed.
spike: oh, son of a b...
scene direction: muscle-man punches spike in the head. he goes down. another punch. spike scrambles backward on his butt and hands.
scene direction: shot of muscle-man from spike's pov as the flaming fist swings down again.
scene change: cut to a back alley somewhere, night. two people walk along. cut closer to reveal they are clem and dawn.
dawn: rack's place was right around here last time.
clem: oh, huh, i don't feel anything.
scene direction: clem quickly
clem: oh well. not here. let's go home.
dawn: you don't feel anything because his place moves. i told you.
scene direction: dawn they stop walking
clem: know why rack moves all the time? because he's shady. a bad element comes down here.
dawn: i get that. but willow's part of it now. she is the element. if she isn't around somewhere, rack may know where she is. which is why we need to talk to him.
scene direction: clem nervous
clem: we? in a face to face way?
scene direction: dawn impatient
dawn: or me. i'll go in there without you.
clem: no, no, it's fine, i'm good, it's just, rack isn't partial to the floppy-eared.
scene direction: clem dawn looking skeptical
clem: he has a thing! but, but hey, i'm in. absolutely.
dawn: either way. just get me there.
scene direction: dawn resumes walking
clem: say rack does know where willow is. he's not going to tell you for nothing. he's gonna want something.
dawn: i have money.
scene direction: clem sighs
clem: that's not the kind of something he's gonna want. rack likes little girls.
scene direction: dawn stops walking, angrily
dawn: i am not a little girl.
clem: i, i don't know if you've thought this through. i'm supposed to keep you safe
scene direction: clem dawn looking annoyed
clem: and this whole thing is... i mean, even if you find willow ... you really think you can stop her?
scene direction: dawn stares at him, not sure what to say.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. the door opens and anya enters, followed by xander, then andrew, jonathan, and buffy. anya strides into the middle of the room impatiently.
xander: thanks, anya, for getting here so fast. it's a big help.
anya: once again, xander in need of the big help.
xander: whatever. so, can you still sense willow? knowing her location'd be a real big comfort right about now.
scene direction: they go over to the table that still holds the pile of now blank magic books.
anya: no, i can't. which means whatever she's feeling, it's gone way beyond simple vengeance.
xander: did i mention me needing the comfort?
buffy: whatever we've got, better grab it fast. this is one of the first places she's gonna think to look for us.
scene direction: andrew alarmed
andrew: then what are we doing here? you know, i could summon a demon that would kill her.
scene direction: they all turn to look at him, angry.
xander: and i could smack you so hard your eyeballs would switch sockets. buffy: no one is getting killed. sit down.
scene direction: jonathan and andrew go to sit down. anya moves off.
buffy: we need to find some sort of magicks that'll stop willow. or at least slow her down. xander: but she drained the place.
scene direction: anya does something at the cash register. buffy and xander look at the blank books.
scene direction: xander holding up a book
xander: took everything.
anya: not everything.
scene direction: anya has a small key in her hand. she reaches under the counter to pull something out.
xander: what is it?
scene direction: xander and buffy walk over. anya produces a medium-sized wooden chest. she opens it and takes out a book.
anya: um, book of protection spells. anti-magic, our last resort.
xander: think you can work this stuff?
scene direction: anya looking at book
anya: ah. okay. well, the good news is, text is intact. bad news is, ah, i can't read a word of it. it's like in, ancient sumerian or something.
scene direction: close on the book, whose yellowing pages are covered in symbols.
scene direction: jonathan gets up, walks a little closer.
jonathan: could i take a look at it?
buffy: shut up.
jonathan: right.
scene direction: jonathan starts to turn back to his seat, pauses, addresses buffy.
jonathan: i just thought, you know, as long as you're protecting us, the least i could do is-
buffy: i'm not protecting you, jonathan. none of us are. we're doing this for willow. the only reason it happens to be your lucky day? is because willow kills you, she crosses a line, i lose a friend.
scene direction: buffy gets right up in jonathan's face
buffy: and i hate losing.
jonathan: i get that. it's just ... you know she's running out of power, right? i can tell. i can practically feel it.
scene direction: jonathan quietly, embarrassed
jonathan: i've dabbled in the magicks.
xander: i think willow's in a league of her own about now, dabble-boy.
jonathan: but still, running that hot for that long, it's just a matter of time before you gotta re-charge, no matter how juiced up you are.
buffy: thank you. now you remember that thing we talked about?
jonathan: about me shutting up?
scene direction: buffy nods.
scene direction: jonathan whispers
jonathan: right.
scene direction: he goes back to his seat beside andrew.
scene direction: xander pulls buffy aside.
xander: buffy, let's say this works. and we stop willow from working the hoodoo for a minute. what then?
buffy: i talk to her.
xander: great. and say what?
scene direction: buffy takes off her hat, runs her hand through her hair, sighs.
buffy: look ... whatever she's gonna do, she starts with those two.
scene direction: buffy indicating andrew and jonathan
buffy: they're the line she cannot cross. and if she's running low on magicks ? then she's probably somewhere right now trying to get it all back.
scene change: cut to rack's place, night. the door opens (pov of someone entering the room), revealing a junkie boy lying blissed-out on the floor with his eyes closed, holding a lit cigarette. pan over to rack, sitting on the floor between a sofa and a coffee-table, laying out runestones on the sofa. he doesn't look at the camera.
rack: hey, babe. i been waiting for you.
scene direction: he lays down another stone and looks over. reveal willow standing in the doorway, her eyes back to normal.
rack: guess the rehab didn't take, huh. that's the way it goes sometimes.
scene direction: he gets up and walks slowly toward her.
rack: but i gotta say ... i could feel you coming a mile away, the power you got. and you know something, sweetness?
scene direction: rack whispers
rack: i liked it.
scene direction: he keeps moving closer, all sleazy and creepy-seductive. willow doesn't react, just stands there.
rack: when you first came to me, you were just a little ... slip of a girl.
scene direction: he gets right up behind willow, puts his hands on her shoulders and moves them down out of shot.
rack: look at you now, all ... growed up. so full of dark juice.
scene direction: he moves to the other side of her, still behind her, his hands on her shoulders. he reaches up and brushes hair back from her face, nuzzles her ear. she still just stands there.
rack: and you still taste like strawberries. only now ...
scene direction: rack moves around in front of her
rack: ...you're ripe.
scene direction: he stays right there in her face, almost like he's about to kiss her. he even puts his hand on her chin.
rack: you came because you want something. don't you?
scene direction: willow nods slowly.
rack: i thought so.
scene direction: rack stroking her cheek
rack: so tell me, strawberry...
scene direction: now his mouth is barely an inch away from willow's as he continues to caress her cheek with one hand.
rack: ...what on this earth do you want?
scene direction: willow lifts her own hand to touch rack's face the same way. but then she starts to squeeze.
willow: just to take a little tour.
scene direction: suddenly her other hand comes up and smacks onto rack's chest. magic begins to flow. rack gasps and groans helplessly. his body glows and little sparks of lightning flash around him. willow continues to hold him by the chin with one hand with her other hand on his chest, slowly lifting him up off the ground as the magic crackles between them. rack continues making little pained groaning noises.
scene change: cut to the alley. it's empty. a car goes by.
scene change: cut to rack's waiting room. clem enters through the shimmery magic wall, looks around, walks farther inside. dawn appears behind him.
dawn: yay, clem, making with the demon senses! i knew you'd find this place.
scene direction: clem looks around nervously.
scene direction: clem softly
clem: it's not very clean.
dawn: don't wig out on me again.
clem: it's just, i'm still not so sure you should be here. i'm not so sure *i* should be here.
dawn: it'll only take a minute. come on.
scene direction: dawn walks toward the door that leads to the inner room. clem watches nervously but doesn't follow her. she turns back, sighs.
dawn: you wanna wait here?
scene direction: clem relieved
clem: if that works for you...
dawn: be right back.
scene direction: she opens the door. clem looks around, sighs nervously.
scene change: cut to the inner room. dawn enters slowly, looking around.
dawn: willow?
scene direction: she turns slowly, and suddenly comes face-to-face with rack -- hanging upside down, with his head at dawn's eye-level, dead.
scene direction: dawn screams, whimpers, turns frantically toward the door. but willow is in the way.
willow: hey, cutie.
scene direction: dawn stares in horror.
scene direction: willow's hair is all black, her eyes are all black, and dark veins are visible all over her face. she gives a little smile.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. we see rack's floating corpse in foreground and dawn staring fearfully at willow in background.
willow: dawnie, what are you doing here? 'cause if you're looking for me? now's not a great time.
dawn: you look terrible.
willow: do i?
scene direction: willow starts to move closer to dawn.
dawn: you're back on the magicks.
willow: no, honey. i am the magicks.
scene direction: dawn backing away as willow advances
dawn: did you kill that guy?
scene direction: willow shrugging
willow: it's an improvement, believe me.
scene direction: dawn very nervous
dawn: i have to go.
scene direction: dawn rushes past willow and toward the door -- and suddenly willow is in front of her again, blocking the door. dawn gives a little yelp of fear.
willow: why? so you can run and tell buffy?
dawn: willow ... please, just listen to me.
willow: you don't have to talk. just think real loud. i can hear you.
scene direction: willow advances again, and dawn backs up again.
dawn: you're freaking me out.
willow: oh, don't be like that. i'm just a little wired. and i have some things to do. i thought if anybody'd understand-
dawn: i miss tara, too!
scene direction: willow stops cold, glares.
dawn: but this? what you're doing here? this is not the way to go! you're only going to make things worse! but i promise, it's not too late to-
willow: you miss her?
scene direction: dawn shocked
dawn: yes.
willow: did you cry?
scene direction: willow dawn still looking shocked
willow: of course you did. i get that.
scene direction: willow resumes walking toward dawn, and dawn resumes backing away.
willow: i understand the crying, you cry because you're human. but you weren't always.
scene direction: dawn hurt
dawn: yes, i was.
willow: no, please. you're telling me you don't remember? you used to be some ... mystic ball of energy. maybe that's why you're crying all the time, dawnie. 'cause you don't belong here.
scene direction: dawn finds herself backed up against the wall, gasping anxiously.
willow: wanna go back? end the pain? you'll be happier. i'll be happier. we'll all be a lot happier without listening to the constant whining.
scene direction: dawn tearful and angry
dawn: willow, stop...
scene direction: willow mock-whining
willow: "mom!" "buffy!" "tara!" "waah!" it's time you go back to being a little energy ball.
scene direction: dawn looks very scared.
willow: no more tears, dawnie.
scene direction: willow's voice echoes weirdly on that last line. dawn whimpers and presses back against the wall. willow smiles a little, advancing right up to dawn.
scene direction: loud bang from behind. willow turns.
scene direction: buffy stands in the doorway.
buffy: i think you need to get away from her.
scene change: cut to the magic box. anya sits behind the counter with the magic book open in front of her, a notebook next to her, and a pen in her hand. xander stands right behind her looking at another book.
anya: you're too close.
xander: how am i supposed to read?
anya: i don't know, i'm staring right at this stuff and i can't read it.
xander: well, how's the translation coming?
scene direction: xander anya looking very annoyed
xander: hat have we got so far?
scene direction: anya sighs, looks at notebook
anya: so far we've got "the." well, either "the" or "towards," i'm not really sure.
scene direction: anya writes something down
anya: i can't do this. i'm in retail. stupid ancient sumerian.
scene direction: jonathan o.s.
jonathan: i'm pretty sure it's babylonian.
scene direction: anya and xander look up. jonathan is standing on the opposite side of the counter.
jonathan: the text is similar, but the dialect is completely different.
xander: great. babylonian. thanks a bushel. but unless you can read babylonian, why don't you sit back down.
scene direction: jonathan goes back to sit next to andrew again.
scene direction: andrew softly
andrew: why are you helping them?
jonathan: because they're saving our lives, you moron.
andrew: uh-huh. and what then? even if they kill that wicca bitch, you think they're just gonna let us walk? they own us.
jonathan: so what do you want me to do?
andrew: look around. you know magic. we're in a magic shop. we can take them.
scene direction: jonathan looks at him incredulously.
andrew: the books are sucked dry, but so what? there's still like tons of supplies all around us. this is the best chance we're gonna get to make it out of here.
jonathan: and do what?
andrew: start over. we can be a duo. you and me. you can even be the leader, i swear, i'll take orders.
scene direction: andrew jonathan looking contemplative
andrew: i like taking orders. just tell me what to do.
scene direction: jonathan looks like he's considering it.
jonathan: you want an order?
scene direction: suddenly jonathan jumps up, grabbing andrew by the front of his shirt, and slams him against a bookcase.
jonathan: grow up.
xander: hey now, play nice, fellas, or you'll break our concentration.
anya: which means no protection spell.
scene direction: jonathan lets go of andrew.
xander: and willow will make you two boneless chickens skinless, too.
andrew: and then what? you think your little witch buddy's gonna stop with us?
scene direction: andrew xander and anya glaring at him
andrew: you saw her! she's a truck-driving magic mama! and we've got maybe seconds before darth rosenberg grinds everybody into jawa-burgers, and not one of you bunch has the midichlorians to stop her.
xander: you've never had any tiny bit of sex, have you?
anya: the annoying virgin has a point. what if willow fillets their soles and then comes after us?
xander: she won't.
anya: you don't know that.
xander: we're her friends, anya. her family. she would never hurt us.
anya: she tried to use you for a hood ornament, xander. she doesn't care if you live or die.
scene direction: xander looks stung by that.
xander: guess you two finally have something in common
scene direction: beat. anya looks slightly chastised. she turns back to her research.
anya: i care if you live or die, xander. i'm just not sure which one i want.
xander: again with the comfort. look, we both know things might get ugly at, uh, wiccapalooza. and if it gets really bad...
scene direction: anya still not looking at him
anya: let me guess. you'll propose?
scene direction: xander looks a bit hurt by that too, but he presses on.
xander: i need to know if you're gonna turn on me. use this little shindig as an excuse for some sweet revenge.
scene direction: anya finally turns to look at him
anya: there is nothing in this world that could give me greater or more lasting satisfaction than to reap bloody vengeance upon you, xander harris. but i can't. not officially, not magically .
scene direction: anya sarcastic
anya: so smile, it's your lucky day. you got away with it, i can't hurt you.
xander: right, 'cause you varnishing the table with spike, how could that possibly have hurt? it may have chafed...
scene direction: anya more quietly
anya: that wasn't vengeance. it was solace.
scene direction: xander looks surprised and very hurt. anya looks upset too.
scene direction: anya sighs
anya: look ... i really can't hurt you, so, i'm just gonna have to settle for hating you.
xander: if that's what you need to do.
scene direction: anya angry
anya: don't! you don't get to play the martyr.
xander: i'm not.
anya: you know, none of this would be happening if it weren't for you.
xander: you think i don't know that? you think i'm the hero of this piece?
scene direction: xander upset
xander: i saw the gun. before warren raised it, i ... i saw it, and i couldn't move. he shot two of my friends ... before i could even... you want me to know how useless i am? that it's my fault? thanks. already got the memo.
scene direction: anya looks sympathetic.
scene direction: anya softly
anya: i was talking about us.
scene direction: they return to studying their books.
scene direction: cut back to rack's.
buffy: you need to back down a minute and think, will.
willow: i wasn't gonna hurt her. buzzkill.
scene direction: dawn whispers, upset
dawn: she tried to turn me back...
scene direction: buffy advancing slowly
buffy: you're attacking the people who love you now?
willow: only the ones in my way.
buffy: that's not ... you need help.
willow: i'm doing fine on my own, thanks.
scene direction: buffy gets right up next to them, still moving slowly. suddenly she reaches out and grabs dawn.
buffy: dawn, get out of here. go!
scene direction: dawn runs to the door, but it's suddenly locked.
willow: don't. we're all friends.
buffy: willow, i know what you want to do, but you have to listen to me. the forces inside you are incredibly powerful. they're strong ... but you're stronger.
scene direction: buffy dawn cowering in the corner
buffy: you have to remember you're still willow.
scene direction: willow scoffs
willow: let me tell you something about willow.
scene direction: willow advancing toward buffy
willow: she's a loser. and she always has been. people picked on willow in junior high school, high school, up until college. with her stupid mousy ways. and now? willow's a junkie.
buffy: i can help.
willow: the only thing willow was ever good for...
scene direction: she pauses, drops the bitter sarcasm and grows pensive.
willow: ...the only thing i had going for me ... were the moments - just moments - when tara would look at me and i was wonderful.
scene direction: willow grimly
willow: and that will never happen again.
buffy: i know this hurts. bad. but willow, if you let loose with the magicks, it will never end.
scene direction: willow smiles nastily
willow: promise?
buffy: you don't want that.
willow: why not?
scene direction: dawn moves away from the wall and approaches them.
buffy: because you lose everything. your friends, your self... willow, if you let this control you then the world goes away. and all of us with it. there's so much to live for.
scene direction: buffy forcefully
buffy: will, there's too much-
scene direction: willow scoffs
willow: oh, please! this is your pitch? buffy, you hate it here as much as i do. i'm just more honest about it.
buffy: that's not true.
willow: you're trying to sell me on the world.
scene direction: the camera starts to do a slow turn thing where it stays focused on willow but the background turns behind her...
willow: the one where you lie to your friends when you're not trying to kill them? and you screw a vampire just to feel? and insane asylums are the comfy alternative? this world? buffy, it's me. i know you were happier when you were in the ground. the only time you were ever at peace in your whole life is when you were dead. until willow brought you back.
scene direction: the background has been changing as it turns...
willow: you know, with magic?
scene direction: buffy suddenly blinks, looks disoriented.
willow: oh. sorry, the trip can be kind of rough...
scene direction: dawn, standing next to willow, is looking shocked and disoriented too. we see that they are now in the magic shop.
willow: ...if you're, you know , not me.
scene direction: we see xander behind the counter, staring at them in surprise.
scene direction: dawn looks around, suddenly collapses on the floor.
buffy: dawn!
scene direction: buffy kneels next to dawn. willow turns, spots the remaining two nerds sitting at the table again. willow smiles.
willow: jonathan. andrew.
scene direction: willow the geeks looking scared
willow: you boys like magic, don't you?
scene direction: she smiles as magic starts to flow around her.
willow: abracadabra.
scene direction: she lifts both her hands toward them. streams of purple-black magic flow from her hands and toward them. a breeze ruffles her hair. lightning flashes.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: same scene. willow is throwing magic at the nerds, but it stops before it actually reaches them. willow stops.
willow: okay. didn't see that coming.
scene direction: the nerds are unharmed, and surprised.
andrew: w-what was that?
jonathan: we're alive.
willow: you guys want to take it slow?
scene direction: willow jonathan and andrew exchanging a fearful look
willow: i can do that, too.
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: ask warren.
scene direction: willow lifts her hands and resumes with the magic.
scene direction: shot of buffy sitting on the floor beside dawn, both leaning against the counter looking weak.
buffy: don't!
scene direction: willow continues throwing magic across the table at the geeks, who are scared but untouched.
scene direction: reveal anya in a hidden nook around the corner, holding the magic book and muttering in sumerian, or possibly babylonian. she looks nervously around the corner and we can see the light from willow's magic illuminating anya. she looks back down at the book, continuously chanting.
scene direction: willow stops again. jonathan and andrew exchange another fearful look.
jonathan: let's get out of here.
scene direction: they move toward one side of the table to go around it. willow moves that way too. they stop, run the other way and toward the door to the back, which is standing open.
willow: no no, stay.
scene direction: the door closes itself in front of them. they stop, turn back.
willow: i mean, we're just getting started.
scene direction: behind willow, buffy and dawn finally get up.
scene direction: jonathan and andrew grab swords that are hanging on the wall.
willow: i've got big party plans.
buffy: will-
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: no, don't.
willow: guys, come on. i'm just getting wood for the violence here. and you know what they say ... if at first you don't succeed...
scene direction: she lifts her hands and starts blasting magic again.
scene change: cut to the cave. spike hurtles against a wall, groaning. he has a large bruise or burn on his chest, and various other burns and injuries. he slumps down onto the ground, wipes blood from his mouth with the back of one hand.
spike: had enough?
scene direction: he pulls himself to his feet.
scene direction: the muscle-man with the flaming hands punches spike again. he stumbles backward, goes around a large pillar, comes out from the other side and takes a swing. muscle-man ducks, punches spike again. he reels against another wall, bounces back, takes a few more punches and goes down.
scene direction: on the next punch, spike grabs the other man's fist, flames and all. he winces in pain but holds on, then shoves muscle-man back with a strong thrust.
scene direction: spike holding up his burnt hand
spike: bad move, bad move, bad move...
scene direction: he ducks another punch, grabs muscle-man's arm and flips him over onto his back. while muscle-man is on the ground, spike kicks him in the groin, flipping him over. spike straddles muscle-man's shoulders and takes hold of his head, twists it violently, breaking his neck.
scene direction: spike straightens up, panting.
spike: looks like local boy loses.
scene direction: the demon reappears, still in shadow so we can't see it too clearly.
demon: so it would appear.
spike: good on me, then. i get what i came for. i passed, right?
demon: indeed. you have passed the first stage of the test.
spike: right, i get...
scene direction: spike pauses
spike: wait. first stage?
scene direction: silence. the demon's eyes glow greenish-blue.
spike: bugger.
scene direction: cut back to the magic box. willow is still sending magic toward the nerds. they stand wincing, holding their swords, as the magic fails to harm them.
scene direction: willow stops again, seeming amused.
willow: damn, that is one effective counter-spell.
scene direction: jonathan and andrew stare at her, scared, clutching the swords.
willow: won't keep you alive, though.
buffy: will, stop. you need to give this up now.
scene direction: willow ignoring her
willow: i get it. you boys put a, a spell on yourselves, didn't you. protecting you from harm ... from magicks. that's cute.
buffy: will, back off before somebody gets hurt.
willow: how 'bout i back off right after?
scene direction: willow to nerds
willow: so, which one of you boys worked the mojo?
scene direction: the nerds just stare, too scared to say anything.
willow: doesn't matter, really. i'm just curious.
scene direction: shot of anya still hiding in her nook, chanting her protection spell.
willow: just because i can't do magicks to you, doesn't mean i can't do them on myself.
scene direction: magic crackles around willow as she bends her head and mutters something in latin(?).
scene direction: more swirling magic and crackles of lightning just around willow.
scene direction: then the magic fades and she lifts her head, smiling.
willow: now i'm pretty sure i'm strong enough to beat you to death.
scene direction: the boys have retreated behind the table again. willow reaches down and casually takes hold of a corner of the table, topples it over and throws it aside with ease. the books go flying, the table lies on its side. the boys look terrified.
scene direction: willow starts toward them. buffy moves over and blocks her way.
buffy: i don't want to hurt you.
scene direction: willow punches buffy. buffy flies backward a long way, crashing into a magazine rack against a wall. the geeks look even more scared. xander looks alarmed, moves in front of dawn.
willow: not a problem.
scene direction: willow starts toward the guys again. buffy gets up, now wearing her kick-ass expression. she strides over to get in front of willow again.
buffy: i said i didn't *want* to.
scene direction: buffy backhands willow. now it's willow's turn to fly backward, crashing into a glass display case. crash, tinkle, broken glass and wood and merchandise everywhere. willow lands in a heap on the floor.
buffy: didn't say i wouldn't.
scene direction: xander rushes toward the nerds.
xander: let's go.
jonathan: what about willow?
xander: buffy can handle her.
dawn: are you sure?
xander: no, that's why we're leaving.
scene direction: xander, dawn, jonathan, and andrew rush for the door. on the way, xander passes anya in her nook.
xander: come on!
anya: i can't, i, i have to stay here to keep the spell going on willow.
xander: no, but...
scene direction: anya harshly
anya: go, do something right!
scene direction: xander hesitates just another instant, then takes off with the others. anya resumes chanting.
scene direction: xander, dawn, and the nerds get to the door, open it, start out.
scene direction: willow, still on the floor, looks up and sees this.
willow: no!
scene direction: willow gets up, but buffy strides up behind her and grabs the back of her jacket, throws her back away from the door. willow slides across the floor, comes to a stop by the stairs leading up to the loft.
scene direction: buffy stands there, ready.
scene direction: willow gets up and faces buffy. it's a showdown. zoom in on willow's face. zoom in on buffy's face.
willow: so.
scene direction: willow smiling
willow: here we are.
buffy: are we really gonna do this?
willow: come on, this is a huge deal for me! six years as a side man, and now i get to be the slayer.
buffy: a killer isn't a slayer. being a slayer means something you can't conceive of.
scene direction: willow sighing, shaking her head
willow: oh, buffy. you really need to have every square inch of your ass kicked.
buffy: then show me what you got. and i'll show you what a slayer really is.
scene direction: they move toward each other and begin to fight. first they grapple and willow tries a head-butt, then kicks buffy in the stomach, punches her. buffy ducks another swing and hits willow, then punches her in the face. willow does a spin-kick and gets buffy in the face, then another kick.
scene direction: buffy tries to kick willow but willow does a flip over her head, landing behind buffy. buffy turns and kicks willow, tries to punch but willow grabs her arm and hits her with her other hand. willow throws buffy across the room and against a bookcase.
scene change: cut to the street. andrew, still holding his sword, walks along with the others.
andrew: where are you taking us?
dawn: someplace safe.
jonathan: like where?
dawn: xander?
scene direction: xander walks fast, looking at a loss.
xander: i don't know.
scene direction: cut back to the magic box. willow holds out her hand toward buffy. buffy is still up against the bookshelves, between them and the ladder leading to the loft. books begin to fly off the shelves and hit buffy, trapping her. she clings to the ladder.
scene direction: willow turns and starts to walk off. scraping noises as buffy manages to push the ladder away and get out from behind it. she rushes willow from behind, knocking her to the floor and getting on top of her.
willow: get off, super-bitch.
scene direction: willow throws buffy off and she flies into the counter, shattering more glass. they grapple again and exchange some punches. willow kicks buffy several times, then buffy kicks her and punches her. willow swings but buffy grabs her arm.
buffy: i can help you stop.
scene direction: willow breaks the hold and punches buffy several times.
willow: i thought you were gonna show me what a slayer was.
scene change: cut to the street. the group continues to run along, but jonathan is falling behind. still holding his sword, but he's panting and running painfully.
jonathan: can't ... run any more.
scene direction: jonathan they stop
jonathan: i need to ... breathe.
scene direction: he leans over with hands on his knees, gasping.
xander: if you wanna keep breathing, you gotta keep moving.
scene direction: andrew to xander
andrew: this is bogus. we gotta get out of this town.
scene direction: andrew realizing something, turning to jonathan
andrew: mexico. we should go to mexico.
xander: hey. you're not going anywhere. we just gotta find a place to hide you two until we get the all-clear from buffy.
andrew: yeah, and what if the slayer's dead already?
scene direction: andrew dawn looking alarmed
andrew: we're just supposed to sit around waiting for sabrina to show up and disembowel us?
xander: you do what i say to-
scene direction: andrew suddenly lifts his sword, putting its point to xander's throat.
andrew: i don't think so.
scene direction: cut back to the magic shop. buffy punches willow a few times, blocks her punch and shoves her across the room, bringing down more furniture and merchandise. more crashing, stuff shattered, etc.
scene direction: willow sits up ... and notices anya. her hiding place has been revealed by the latest destruction of furniture. anya continues chanting, staring right at willow, looking scared but defiant. buffy looks alarmed.
willow: well, hey. isn't that interesting. anya's still here.
scene direction: willow gets up. buffy runs over to intercede but willow just shoves her aside, into yet another table covered with stuff. more crashing and shattering.
scene direction: anya keeps chanting defiantly, staring at willow, who advances on her.
willow: looks like i've been beating on the wrong gal.
scene direction: cut back to the street. xander stands very still with the sword point at his chin.
xander: whoa, whoa. okay, andy. let's just put the sword down.
andrew: oh, no way. i'm not gonna die because of something i didn't even do.
xander: you're not gonna die.
scene direction: dawn steps forward.
scene direction: dawn firmly
dawn: leave him alone.
scene direction: jonathan extends his own sword, putting its point on the back of andrew's neck.
jonathan: let him go, andrew.
scene direction: jonathan beat
jonathan: you heard me.
andrew: you let me go first.
jonathan: uh-uh. him.
andrew: it's your move.
jonathan: no. yours.
andrew: i'm not moving.
scene direction: andrew dawn watching tensely
andrew: i'm not gonna budge 'til...
scene direction: jonathan pushes his sword into andrew's neck.
andrew: ...right now.
scene direction: andrew whiny
andrew: ow!
scene direction: andrew lowers his sword and glares at jonathan.
jonathan: xander's right. we're not leaving sunnydale. when this is over, you and i are going back to jail to do our time.
scene change: cut to the magic box. willow has anya by the throat, holding her up off the ground.
anya: help me!
scene direction: looking very scared, anya looks past willow to buffy, lying apparently unconscious among the wreckage of the furniture.
anya: help me!
scene direction: anya to willow
anya: you're hurting me.
willow: you can't block my spells if you can't chant. and you can't chant if you're sleepin'.
scene direction: willow throws anya aside. anya crashes into another bookcase and falls to the ground, groaning, possibly unconscious.
scene direction: willow looks over at buffy, who is conscious now and gets to her feet. they square off again.
willow: buffy ... i gotta tell ya ... i get it now. the slayer thing really isn't about the violence.
scene direction: they circle around each other, watching each other carefully.
willow: it's about the power.
scene direction: magic begins to crackle around willow again. she lifts her hands and blasts buffy with a bolt of magic. it throws buffy back onto the desk. she slides across the desk and lands on the floor beside it, groaning.
scene direction: willow walks a little closer, looking satisfied. buffy doesn't get up, stays down with her forehead pressed against the floor, looking exhausted.
willow: and there's no one in the world with the power to stop me now.
scene direction: suddenly a huge blast of green magic energy hits willow from the side. she goes flying a huge distance across the room, lands on the floor and slides some more.
scene direction: she comes to a stop and lifts her head. her nose is bleeding. she looks surprised, looks up in the direction the magic came from.
scene direction: reveal giles standing in the doorway, wearing a long black coat and no glasses.
giles: i'd like to test that theory.
scene direction: blackout.
scene direction: end of episode.
scene direction: (since this was aired as a 2-hour movie with "grave," there are no closing credits.)