scene direction: open on a close shot of the flashing lights on top of an ambulance. sound of the ambulance siren.
scene direction: pan down to reveal the two male paramedics in the ambulance as it drives down the street. it slows and stops. the horn honks. the paramedics get out, run to the back of the ambulance and begin taking out equipment.
scene direction: xander os
xander: she's in the back.
scene direction: xander comes running around from behind the house. he has the cordless phone in his hand and blood all over his shirt.
xander: this way!
scene direction: he runs back toward the rear again, with the paramedics following.
paramedic #1: she was shot?
xander: yeah, in the chest.
paramedic #2: accidental?
xander: no no, it was a ... he was trying to kill her.
scene direction: they reach buffy who still lies on the grass unmoving, her eyes open. the paramedics kneel on either side of her and go to work.
scene direction: xander watches helplessly.
scene change: cut to close shot on tara still lying in willow's lap. sound of willow crying and breathing heavily. willow's arms have blood on them, as does her shirt. she gently shakes tara.
scene direction: willow crying
willow: oh god, oh no. please, please, come on...
scene direction: willow crying
scene direction: she puts her hands on tara's face.
willow: come on, tara! please, come on, baby...
scene direction: suddenly the lighting in the room goes dark and blue. willow looks up, her eyes totally black. dark blue clouds swirl around the ceiling. lightning flashes (but only inside the room).
willow: by osiris, i command you, bring her back!
scene direction: more lightning.
scene change: cut to close shot on buffy's face, in profile. she closes her eyes and then slowly opens them again.
paramedic #2: pulse is 100 and weak. lung sounds are wet.
xander: what does that mean? is she going to...
paramedic #1: you need to stand back, okay? if you want us to help her out, we need some space.
scene direction: the paramedics continue working. there's a bandage over buffy's wound now, soaked with blood. xander continues watching, putting his bloody hand up to his face.
scene direction: close on buffy staring upward with the bloody bandage over her heart. she looks conscious, but just barely.
scene direction: cut back to willow's room. the blue clouds continue to swirl.
willow: hear me! keeper of darkness!
scene direction: suddenly some of the clouds form into a huge face. it speaks in a deep raspy voice. lightning flashes around it.
demon: witch! how dare you invoke osiris in this task!
scene direction: willow crying
willow: please. please, bring her back.
demon: you may not violate the laws of natural passing.
willow: how? how is this natural?
demon: it is a human death, by human means.
willow: but i-
demon: you raised one killed by mystical forces. this is not the same. she is taken by natural order. it is done.
scene direction: willow crying
willow: no. there has to be a way.
demon: it is done.
scene direction: willow screams
willow: noooo!
scene direction: as she screams, a shimmery column of energy shoots out of her mouth and at the demon. the demon screams and disappears in a final flash of lightning.
scene direction: wolf howl, opening credits.
scene direction: amber benson (tara) does not appear in the opening credits; she was there for just one episode ("seeing red").
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on the front yard of the house. buffy is on a gurney being wheeled toward the ambulance.
scene direction: paramedic #2 into walkie-talkie
paramedic #2: sunnydale memorial, do you copy? we have a caucasian female, 21, gsw to the chest.
xander: come on, buff, hang on. we're going to get you to the hospital.
scene direction: xander spots willow coming out the front door, looking blankly at buffy. willow and xander both still have blood all over their shirts.
xander: willow, god, are you okay?
scene direction: willow quietly
willow: how did this happen?
xander: warren. he had a gun.
scene direction: willow with a brief flash of anger, then blank again
willow: warren.
xander: it went down too fast, i couldn't stop him.
scene direction: willow isn't listening any more. she's walking away, fast. xander stops at the edge of the walk.
xander: hey.
scene direction: she just keeps walking down the sidewalk. xander stares after her, confused and shaken.
xander: will!
paramedic #1: sir, we have to go, are you coming with us or not?
scene direction: xander dithers for a moment, then runs over to the ambulance and climbs in the back. the paramedic closes the doors and heads toward the driver's seat.
scene change: cut to exterior shot of the sunnydale police station.
scene change: cut to a holding cell. it's dark despite being daylight outside. andrew lies on his back on the top bunk.
andrew: think they'll let my aunt bring me my discman?
scene direction: pan over to jonathan, hanging his hands through the bars of the cell.
jonathan: that's what you're worried about? in-flight entertainment? we're in jail!
andrew: we're in custody. we haven't been charged yet.
scene direction: andrew rolling over onto his stomach
jonathan: thank you, dragnet.
scene direction: jonathan walks toward andrew, angry
jonathan: it doesn't matter what they call it, they got us, okay? we're going down.
scene direction: jonathan lowers his voice, nods toward the next cell.
scene direction: jonathan quietly
jonathan: that guy's been looking at me. i think he wants to make me his butt monkey.
scene direction: shot of the guy in the next cell, sitting on his bunk. he glances over.
scene direction: andrew rolling his eyes
andrew: don't flatter yourself. i heard him talking to the guard. he's in here for parking tickets.
jonathan: that doesn't mean anything! the joint changes you.
scene direction: jonathan whispers
jonathan: i hear they like the small ones, with little hands like their girlfriends.
andrew: you have got to chill out. this isn't oz, it's like, mayberry. besides, warren is going to find a way to get us out of here.
scene direction: jonathan sarcastic
jonathan: yeah. i'm sure he'll be busting us out any minute.
andrew: he will. he's coming up with a plan. like, "war games." remember that decoder that matthew broderick used?
scene direction: jonathan smiling
jonathan: oh, yeah. that was rad. the one he made from the scissors and the tape recorder?
andrew: i miss "ferris" matthew. broadway matthew? i find him cold.
jonathan: really? no, i-
scene direction: jonathan catches himself, exasperated
jonathan: shut up!
scene direction: jonathan goes back to the bars and hangs his arms through them again.
scene direction: jonathan grimly
jonathan: this is real life. and nobody's coming to get us. not even your aunt who won't return your one phone call.
scene direction: andrew defensively
andrew: she must be out of town.
jonathan: she. doesn't. care. and neither does your partner in crime, warren.
andrew: don't say that. and what do you mean, my partner in crime? we're in this together.
scene direction: jonathan turns back toward andrew, angry
jonathan: what do you mean, what do i mean? you two were totally going to fly off and leave me holding the bag.
andrew: no we weren't! i was going to -
scene direction: andrew lamely
andrew: carry you.
scene direction: andrew rolls over onto his back and stares at the ceiling
jonathan: no, you two were setting me up, and then warren was going to screw you over too.
scene direction: andrew rolls over again to face jonathan, tearful
andrew: that is so not true!
jonathan: sure.
scene direction: jonathan sits on the bottom bunk
jonathan: he's a nice murderer who keeps his word.
scene direction: andrew softly
andrew: you're wrong. he's coming for us. he's out there right now, devising a brilliant way to get us out of here.
scene change: cut to interior of an underground bar. warren comes down the stairs outside and enters, wearing a slick suit and dark sunglasses. he strides toward the bar.
warren: whiskey, straight up. and get a round for the house. i'm feeling expansive.
scene direction: we see that the bartender is a demon. he looks unimpressed by warren. warren sits down, removes his shades. a vampire is on the stool next to him, staring at the tv behind the bar.
scene direction: warren friendly greeting
warren: hey.
scene direction: close on the tv, showing a crocodile in water.
scene direction: warren leaning toward the vamp
warren: bet you don't get a lot of humans in-
scene direction: the vamp, still glued to the tv, grabs warren's shoulder and holds him off.
vampire: i'm watching my program.
scene direction: warren shrugs and straightens up as the vamp lets him go.
warren: wouldn't want to interrupt your 'me' time.
scene direction: warren loudly
warren: not even to buy the guy who killed the slayer a drink.
scene direction: shot of the other vamps and demons in the bar, all looking over. the one next to warren is also interested.
vampire: what's that?
warren: took her out myself. i've been heading an organization. the trio? you've heard of us.
vampire: uh -
scene direction: vampire exchanging a look with the demon bartender
vampire: ...no.
scene direction: warren pauses briefly, surprised, but then recovers.
warren: not important. i cut them loose. i figure, now that buffy's out of the picture, some things have got to change around here.
scene direction: warren to bartender
warren: i need a real gang, you know, not a, not a couple of wannabes.
bartender: and you killed the slayer?
warren: with these hands.
bartender: what are you, a warlock?
warren: it's funny you mention that. you know, i've explored all the dark arts ... witchcraft, demonology. you name it, i tried it against the slayer. but you know what i found *really* works?
scene direction: the vampire and bartender lean in close to hear.
warren: gun.
scene direction: vampire small grin
vampire: you killed the slayer with a gun.
warren: in her own backyard. don't underestimate science, my friend. good old-fashioned metal meets propulsion.
scene direction: the demon and vampire start to laugh. warren laughs along with them.
scene direction: bartender to vampire
bartender: man, this is gonna be good.
scene direction: warren not getting it
warren: oh, the best. this town is ours.
vampire: ours, maybe.
scene direction: vampire everyone stops laughing
vampire: you are screwed.
scene direction: they laugh again, but warren doesn't realize that the others are laughing at him, not with him. shot of the other demons and vamps at other tables, also laughing menacingly.
bartender: metal meets propulsion, yeah. but you still better be a good shot!
scene direction: more laughter. but warren is finally cluing in.
warren: this isn't the evil laugh of victory, is it.
vampire: more like the evil laugh of "you're a dead man."
scene direction: vampire more laughter
scene direction: warren totally rattled
warren: okay, uh ... what, what's the joke?
scene direction: bartender laughing
bartender: it was just on the news. girl was shot.
scene direction: vampire grinning
vampire: in her back yard.
bartender: she survived. she's in the hospital
scene direction: warren looks surprised and a little alarmed. the others continue laughing.
bartender: slayers heal fast. real fast.
vampire: yeah. i was gonna eat you myself during the commercial, but now i think it'll be more fun to let the slayer de-gut you.
scene direction: warren now looks pretty scared.
vampire: might want to get a head start, my friend. 'cause this girl is gonna be coming for you, big time.
scene direction: vampire chuckling
scene change: cut to interior magic shop, day. the door suddenly slams open and willow appears in the doorway. she marches inside. lamps and light fixtures explode as she walks past them.
scene direction: reveal anya behind the counter, staring.
anya: willow.
willow: where do you keep the black arts books?
anya: something terrible has happened, i know. but you don't have to do-
scene direction: willow staring up at the loft bookshelves
willow: i need power.
scene direction: anya coming out from behind the counter
anya: not with those books. i can't let you. willow!
scene direction: willow puts up a hand. magic purple bolts of light shoot over to anya and suddenly she can't move.
scene direction: willow gestures with her head. all the books on the loft shelves begin to fly off the shelves and onto the table, landing heaped all over the table. the last book lands opened to a middle page.
scene direction: anya stares in alarm.
scene direction: willow walks over to the table and looks down. shot of the open book with the pages covered in tiny writing.
scene direction: willow lifts her hands and puts them on the open pages. her hands sink into the book as if melding with it.
scene direction: the words of the book start to move off the pages and up her arms, curling and scrolling up under her sleeves. we see the words also coming up her chest, and moving up her shoulders to her face. she lifts her head and her eyes are black again. the words move to the top of her head and into her hair, turning her hair black.
scene direction: willow lifts her hands off the book. we see that the pages are now blank.
scene direction: anya stares.
scene direction: close on willow's face with eyes completely magic-black and her hair also dark black and moving in a nonexistent wind.
willow: that's better.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: the summers house, foyer, day. the door is still standing open. dawn walks up to it and goes inside, looking around a little nervously.
scene direction: dawn calls
dawn: buffy?
scene direction: silence. she puts down her schoolbag and jacket, starts up the stairs.
scene change: cut to upstairs hallway. dawn finishes climbing the stairs.
dawn: buffy?
scene direction: she turns toward willow's bedroom.
dawn: hey. hello? uh,
scene direction: dawn pointing toward downstairs
dawn: the door was...
scene direction: she pauses. shot of the bedroom from dawn's pov. on the other side of the bed we can just barely see something (tara's foot).
dawn: tara?
scene direction: pan in closer to reveal tara's lifeless body lying there with the bullet wound in her chest. dawn stares in complete horror.
scene change: fade to white.
scene change: fade to a door. it opens, revealing rack (see episode "wrecked").
rack: all right, who's next?
scene direction: reveal a couple of magic "junkies" sitting in the waiting room. also warren. he leaps up out of his chair.
warren: i am.
scene direction: one of the other junkies looks upset, like warren is cutting in line. warren walks quickly over to rack, who looks him up and down.
junkie: hey.
rack: you're new.
warren: yeah.
scene direction: warren holds up a large wad of cash
warren: and i come bearing dead presidents, so you think we can just skip the small talk?
scene direction: rack smiles a little, gestures toward the room behind him. warren walks in. rack closes the door behind them with a loud noise that makes warren jump.
rack: how'd you find me?
warren: i talked to a guy. he's one of your regulars. offered to show me the way for twenty bucks.
rack: should have haggled. most of my customers'll bring you here for five.
scene direction: warren impatiently
warren: great, great i'll file that away. look, i'm in a bit of a situation here. i tried to do us all a favor, and eliminate the slayer, but it ... i...
scene direction: warren seems a little unnerved by the way rack is just staring at him.
warren: i guess it didn't take.
scene direction: rack walking closer
rack: killing a slayer, that's big business for a kid.
warren: i'm not a kid.
scene direction: rack now in warren's personal space
rack: okay.
warren: i had my own guys. the trio, yeah, you've heard of us.
rack: right. what were you, a band or something?
warren: i thought word traveled in the underworld. you know, we were evil. robots were my thing.
scene direction: warren rack looking blank
warren: you didn't hear about the freeze ray?
scene direction: rack shakes his head
rack: sorry. so why aren't your guys helping you?
warren: look, i thought this was a cash for service gig, not an interview process, all right? i need protection. i've got the slayer after me.
scene direction: rack moving away
rack: slayer is the least of your problems.
warren: you're right. let's talk about my skin troubles. you know, i'd say on the scale of problems, that she ranks!
rack: if i were you, i'd be worried about the witch.
scene direction: warren surprised
warren: witch? w-which witch?
rack: willow. slayer's pal?
scene direction: rack walking closer again
rack: she's the new power, man, anybody with intuition can feel it. she's going to blow this town apart .
scene direction: rack now right in warren's face
rack: starting ... with you.
warren: me? what did i, what did i do to her? o-okay, okay, i, i shot her friend...
scene direction: rack isn't totally listening any more, looks like he's in pain, turns away.
scene direction: rack painfully
rack: i feel death.
warren: but the slayer's alive. and - and she heals.
rack: she might, but somebody's stone cold, and that ... is why the witch wants your head. she can sense your essence right now, man. it's just a matter of time before she finds you.
scene direction: warren panicks, lunges forward and pushes the whole wad of money into rack's hand.
warren: all right. take it. all right, there's that, and i can get more. just give me something.
scene direction: rack looks at the money casually.
rack: hide or fight?
warren: both. all of it. i, i still have a few tricks up my sleeve, but it's not enough. i need, i need a cover, and i need lots of fire power.
rack: i can't guarantee anything. not this time.
scene direction: rack softly
rack: the girl is running on pure fury. i've never felt anything like it.
scene direction: rack small grin
warren: thank you for the tip, nostradamus. just load me up, okay?
scene change: cut to sunnydale hospital. xander stands in the hallway looking through a window into another room, anxious. a nurse in full scrubs goes past him, holding a small tray. the camera follows her as she goes around a corner and through a door into the room xander is watching. we see various medical personnel working on buffy, talking indistinctly. a machine beeps steadily.
nurse: ...standing by.
scene direction: a doctor is working on the wound in buffy's chest.
doctor: we've got to stop that bleeding.
nurse #1: where?
doctor: over by the left ventricle.
scene direction: nurse #2 looking at monitors
nurse #2: bp is down to 80/palp.
scene direction: close on buffy as the doctor and nurse #1 work on her.
doctor: we got more bleeding.
nurse #2: bp is...
scene direction: suddenly all the lights flicker and the machines blink off and on again. the steady beeping begins to speed up. the doctor and nurses look up in confusion.
nurse #1: what's happening?
scene direction: angle on the other side of the room as willow comes into view. we see xander through the window in background.
willow: leave.
scene direction: xander sees her, hurries toward the side and out of view.
scene direction: the doctor and nurses turn to look at willow. she is now wearing all black, her hair and eyes still black too.
scene direction: the lights in the room continue flashing erratically and the beeping continues to speed up.
scene direction: xander rushes in, looks with surprise at willow with her newly black hair and eyes.
xander: willow.
scene direction: willow ignoring him, speaking to the medical staff
willow: now.
scene direction: the doctor and three nurses move toward the door. the beeping gets even faster and becomes a steady whine.
xander: will, what are you doing?! she's going to die.
willow: no she isn't.
scene direction: willow moves over to buffy, stands beside her and stares down at her. the beep/whine continues. xander stares.
scene direction: close on buffy. suddenly the bullet lifts up out of her chest and floats up into the air, hovering at willow's eye-level. willow looks at it. the beeping stops.
willow: it's so small.
scene direction: she puts out her hand and plucks the bullet out of the air, brings her hand back toward her. when she opens her hand, the bullet is gone.
scene direction: xander takes a few steps closer, staring in awe.
scene direction: buffy slowly comes to, opens her eyes and lifts her head. the lights come back on.
buffy: what happened?
xander: buffy!
scene direction: xander rushes over to her as she sits up.
xander: oh my god, are you okay?
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: sure. how'd i get here?
scene direction: xander hugs her in relief. willow just watches.
xander: you've got to stop doing this. this dying thing's funny once, maybe twice.
scene direction: buffy looks over at willow.
buffy: willow?
scene direction: willow very small smile
willow: buffy. hey.
buffy: what's wrong?
willow: i'll explain. but we've gotta go.
scene direction: she starts to move toward the door. xander and buffy watch her, confused.
buffy: why?
scene direction: willow not turning back
willow: it's time to find warren.
scene direction: willow walks to the door and exits the room. buffy and xander exchange a look.
scene change: cut to a ticket counter somewhere. indistinct announcements over a loudspeaker. a woman in a uniform hands warren a ticket folder.
warren: this'll get me all the way to the border?
clerk: you'll have to change to the city bus. it's all in the folder.
scene direction: she turns back to her work, then gives warren a look as if wondering why he's still there. warren suddenly turns quickly away, walks outside.
scene change: cut to the street as warren exits. a bunch of buses are lined up along the curb. warren looks around, sees his bus, climbs on.
scene change: cut to a highway, daylight. it's fairly deserted with mostly desert on each side. a single car speeds along.
scene change: cut to the interior of the car. xander is driving, buffy in the passenger seat and willow in back. willow's eyes are back to normal but her hair is still black.
willow: faster.
xander: i'm going as fast as i-
willow: faster!
scene direction: close on the gas pedal as it slams down under xander's foot. the car speeds up.
xander: will, would you cut that out? if you wanted to drive...
buffy: we need to stop. i don't like this.
willow: we're close. i can feel him.
buffy: and we'll catch him, and he'll go to jail. look, i'm finding the whole getting shot very motivating. but you're using magic.
willow: if i wasn't, you'd be dead.
scene direction: willow xander looking upset
buffy: maybe. but this isn't right. okay, this isn't how i want it.
willow: sometimes you don't have a choice.
xander: i think buffy gets the tie-breaker on this one. she was the one on the ouchy end of the bullet.
buffy: will, you do have a choice. this isn't good for you.
xander: you made the decision to stop for a reason. you promised us. and can i just ask, what's with the make-over of the damned? i mean, the hair...!
scene direction: willow isn't really listening; she's looking around. now she suddenly sits up.
willow: turn right! go!
scene direction: xander looks in front of him, seeing nothing.
xander: go - where?
willow: over there! now!
scene direction: xander looking in confusion
xander: will.
willow: turn.
scene direction: the wheel turns itself under xander's hands. the car screeches off the road onto dirt, zooming between scraggly bushes and such.
scene direction: xander holding up his hands
xander: fine, fine! puppetmaster wants to drive? go right ahead!
scene direction: the car continues to bounce along on the uneven surface. finally it comes to a stop, right before another stretch of paved highway.
scene direction: willow jumps out of the car and begins to stride across the highway. buffy and xander follow more slowly, confused.
buffy: willow, wait!
willow: stay back.
scene direction: willow gestures at them and more bolts of purple-black energy shoot over to them, immobilizing them like anya earlier.
scene direction: willow keeps walking. now we see the bus coming over a rise toward her. she stops, standing in the middle of the road, and glares at the bus.
scene direction: close on the bus driver as the steering wheel suddenly starts doing its own thing. he struggles to control it but can't. the bus speeds toward willow, who stands there calmly.
scene direction: close on the bus driver's foot as the brake pedal pushes down underneath his foot. he continues wrestling with the wheel.
scene direction: the bus starts to slow down. all the passengers (including warren) are thrown around in their seats. screeching of tires. the bus slams to a stop just a foot or so in front of willow.
scene direction: willow walks around to the side. the bus door opens on its own.
willow: get out.
scene direction: all the bus passengers are craning their necks, trying to see what's going on. warren gets up, walks down the aisle and down the steps out of the bus.
scene direction: willow grabs him by the neck, lifts him off the ground. her eyes are black again.
warren: please. i'll-i'll do anything.
scene direction: horrible cracking noise as willow starts to squeeze his neck.
scene direction: suddenly one of his eyes pops out, revealing metal and wiring and sparks. willow lets go and warren falls over motionless on the ground.
scene direction: buffy and xander come running over. they stop and stare. shot of the eyeball rolling around on the ground.
scene direction: willow surprised
willow: it's a robot.
scene direction: they look at her.
scene direction: willow confused
willow: i, i could feel his essence.
scene direction: buffy looks sympathetic. but then willow turns angry again.
willow: he tricked me.
scene direction: willow starts to walk
willow: we'll find him another way.
scene direction: buffy turning to follow
buffy: and then what?
willow: and then we'll kill him.
scene direction: buffy grabs willow's arm and stops her, turns her around.
buffy: okay, you need to calm down.
willow: calm down?
buffy: look, you're angry. i, i am too. there's no excuse for what warren did, but that-
willow: he shot tara.
scene direction: buffy and xander stare at her, speechless.
willow: when he shot you, he hit her too. upstairs in my room.
buffy: oh my god.
willow: guess the last shot was the charm.
xander: she's dead?
willow: she's dead. now he's dead too.
scene direction: buffy very upset
buffy: oh my god ...
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: tara...
xander: christ, will, how come you didn't say anything?
willow: i'm busy.
scene direction: willow starts toward the car again. buffy again grabs her and stops her.
buffy: w-willow, please, just stop.
scene direction: willow stares at her coldly.
buffy: we love you. and tara. but we don't kill humans. it's not the way.
willow: how can you say that? tara is dead.
buffy: i know ... i know. and i ... can't understand ... anything. not what happened ... a-and not what you must be going through. willow, if you do this, you let warren destroy you too.
xander: you said it yourself, will ... the magic's too strong, there's no coming back from it.
willow: i'm not coming back.
scene direction: yet again willow starts to walk off and buffy grabs her, stops her.
buffy: will, please. please, we'll get through this together.
willow: we won't! not your way.
buffy: please, just-
willow: no! no more talking. it's done!
scene direction: she turns away again, this time gesturing behind her. another bolt of purple magic flies backward, knocking buffy and xander off their feet. they fall to the ground in a heap. willow continues walking.
scene direction: buffy and xander sit up, brushing themselves off. they look up toward the car.
scene direction: willow is gone. just empty highway and the car.
scene direction: they look around, look at each other.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: overhead shot of sunnydale. the sun is setting and lights are coming on.
scene change: fade to exterior of the summers house. the front door is still open. buffy and xander walk up the steps, go cautiously inside.
buffy: willow? dawn?
scene direction: they move off -- buffy left into the living room, xander right into the dining room. the camera stays still, looking from the porch in through the door at the stairway and the hallway to the kitchen.
scene direction: xander reappears, returning to the foyer.
xander: maybe she went to the hospital to find you.
scene direction: buffy rejoins him.
buffy: i left there hours ago. she'd be back by now.
scene direction: they look toward the stairs.
scene change: cut to upstairs. buffy and xander are going in and out of the various doors.
buffy: dawn?
scene direction: buffy pauses at the open door to willow's room open. looks inside with an expression of dread. walks inside.
scene direction: reveal tara's body, still lying there in a pool of blood, speckled with moonlight and shadows.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: oh god.
scene direction: dawn o.s., softly
dawn: i didn't ... want to leave her alone.
scene direction: buffy turns and finds dawn huddled in a little ball, in a corner formed by the wall and a side-table, crying.
buffy: dawn. sweetheart.
scene direction: buffy kneeling beside dawn
buffy: come on. honey, we need to get out of here, okay?
scene direction: buffy stroking dawn's hair
buffy: dawn, sweetheart. be strong for me, okay?
scene direction: xander walks in, looks at tara in dismay.
buffy: dawn, we need to go downstairs.
scene direction: dawn crying
dawn: i don't understand.
scene direction: buffy pulls dawn close and hugs her. dawn continues crying.
buffy: i don't understand either.
scene direction: long shot on the tableau of xander standing in the doorway, buffy and dawn holding each other, and tara lying dead on the floor.
scene change: cut to a little later. two men carry a gurney down the stairs, bearing tara's body covered with a black sheet. xander stands at the bottom of the stairs watching. he has changed out of his bloody clothes.
scene direction: buffy and dawn sit in the living room. buffy has also changed her clothing.
scene direction: xander watches in a daze as the men wheel the gurney out the front door. one of them gives him a clipboard.
coroner: if you could just sign this?
xander: sure.
scene direction: he signs the clipboard and hands it back.
coroner: call this number tomorrow, we'll have more information.
scene direction: coroner giving xander a piece of paper
xander: okay, thanks. thank you.
coroner: i'm sorry for your loss.
scene direction: the coroner picks up a briefcase in one hand, takes the end of the gurney in the other, and he and the other (unseen) coroner exit. xander closes the door, looking at the piece of paper. goes into the living room.
xander: so that's it.
buffy: are the police gone too?
xander: coming back tomorrow with more of their pretty yellow tape.
scene direction: he sits on the coffee table. both he and buffy put their faces in their hands for a moment.
scene direction: buffy sighing
buffy: we need to find willow.
xander: yeah, she's off the wagon big-time. warren's a dead man if she finds him.
scene direction: dawn bitterly
dawn: good.
buffy: dawn, don't say that.
dawn: why not?
scene direction: dawn the others looking at her
dawn: i'd do it myself if i could.
buffy: because you don't really feel that way.
dawn: yes i do. and you should too. he killed tara, and he nearly killed you. he needs to pay.
xander: out of the mouths of babes.
buffy: xander.
xander: i'm just saying he's ... he's just as bad as any vampire you've sent to dustville.
buffy: being a slayer doesn't give me a license to kill. warren's human.
scene direction: dawn scoffs
dawn: so?
buffy: so the human world has its own rules for dealing with people like him.
xander: yeah, we all know how well those rules work.
buffy: sometimes they do. sometimes they don't. we can't control the universe. if we were supposed to ... then the magic wouldn't change willow the way it does. and ... we'd be able to bring tara back.
scene direction: dawn very quietly
dawn: and mom.
buffy: there are limits to what we can do. there should be. willow doesn't want to believe that. and now she's messing with forces that want to hurt her. all of us.
xander: i just ... i've had blood on my hands all day.
scene direction: xander looks buffy in the eye
xander: blood from people i love.
buffy: i know. and now it has to stop. warren's going to get what he deserves. i promise . but i will *not* let willow destroy herself.
scene direction: beat. xander nods, sighs.
xander: okay, where do we go? she could be anywhere.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i don't know, um ... maybe the magic box for some kind of locating spell.
scene direction: buffy quickly, to xander
buffy: i could go myself.
xander: no no. i'm cool. i'll go.
buffy: dawn can't stay here by herself.
dawn: let me go with you. i want to.
buffy: no, honey, it's too dangerous.
dawn: but ... it's willow. she needs us.
buffy: she does. and you'll help her. lots. okay, but first we have to get her home in one piece.
dawn: but-
buffy: dawn. i'm serious. you've been through enough for more than one ... ever. you should be someplace where you feel safe.
scene direction: dawn sullen
dawn: fine. i want to go to spike's.
scene direction: beat. buffy sighs heavily.
buffy: all right.
xander: what?! not all right. are you kidding? after what spike did-
buffy: xander!
scene direction: buffy gives xander a meaningful look and a very small shake of the head.
buffy: i'll get the coats.
scene direction: she gets up and moves toward the foyer. xander follows.
scene direction: xander quietly
xander: you're not gonna really leave dawn with mr. attempted rape.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: he won't hurt dawn. i, he-he physically can't. besides, he wouldn't.
xander: well, after the other night, i'd say all bets are off on what he's capable of.
buffy: dawn feels safe with him. we don't have a choice. right now, he's all we've got.
scene direction: xander looks displeased.
scene change: cut to exterior of a uc sunnydale dorm building.
scene change: cut to tara's room. willow sits on the bed holding her white shirt stained with tara's blood. she looks at it for a moment, then gets up, kneels on the floor and spreads the shirt out on the floor, bloody side down. we see that willow's eyes are still black.
willow: blood of the slain, hear me. guide me to tara's killer.
scene direction: close on the shirt. the blood rises to the surface and forms a map. a glowing dot, as if the shirt were on fire just in one little spot, marks a single point on the map, moving slightly. willow studies it grimly.
scene change: cut to interior spike's crypt. the tv is showing an old movie.
man #1 on tv: john, why don't you forget this foolishness?
man #2 on tv: stop right where you are, mr. norton.
woman on tv: john! john!
scene direction: buffy and dawn enter the crypt, walk over toward the armchair in front of the tv.
buffy: spike.
scene direction: the person in the chair gives a yelp of surprise and jumps up in a shower of popcorn/chips/junk-food. it's clem, who had been asleep.
clem: suffering cats!
scene direction: buffy is startled, stares at him.
scene direction: clem puts hand on his chest
clem: where did you come from?
buffy: oh. clem, i - sorry, i didn't mean to startle you.
clem: it's, uh, it's okay, you just
scene direction: clem chuckles
clem: snuck up on me is all.
scene direction: buffy apologetic
buffy: i made you spill your snacks.
clem: nah, don't worry about it.
scene direction: clem holds up his arm and indicates loose floppy skin
clem: like i need any more of this.
scene direction: clem waves at dawn
clem: oh, hi.
dawn: hi.
clem: can i get you ladies something? i was just about to mix up some country time.
buffy: we're looking for spike, actually.
clem: he didn't tell you?
buffy: tell me what?
clem: he left. town.
buffy: oh.
scene direction: close on buffy who looks like she has mixed feelings about this news.
dawn: he just took off?
clem: that's why i'm staying here for him. sweet pad like this goes empty for a few days, you'll lose it for sure. plus, i ...
scene direction: clem indicates the tv
clem: don't have a tv.
scene direction: buffy has a sour expression.
clem: i'm surprised he didn't tell you. he kind of left in a hurry, i guess.
scene direction: clem awkwardly
clem: sure i can't get you something? i've got bugles and, uh, liverwurst...
buffy: we're fine, thank you. um, but you could do us a favor. do you think maybe dawn could hang out here with you for a while? i have some stuff that i need to do and, uh, i really don't want her to be alone.
dawn: i still don't see why i just can't-
buffy: dawn. we've been through this.
scene direction: buffy to clem
buffy: what do you think?
clem: no problem. i'd love the company.
scene direction: clem to dawn
clem: do you like parcheesi?
scene direction: dawn trying to be nice
dawn: sure.
clem: or, we could rent videos. i've been dying to see "the wedding planner."
dawn: either way. i'm good.
clem: ooh, and here.
scene direction: clem indicates the chair
clem: you can have the comfy chair.
scene direction: dawn smiles despite herself.
buffy: i'll be back as soon as i can.
scene direction: buffy hugs dawn
buffy: i promise.
dawn: okay.
scene direction: buffy to clem
buffy: thank you.
scene direction: clem nods. buffy starts for the door, pauses, turns back.
buffy: did he say when he'd be back?
clem: spike? no. only that he could be gone a while.
scene change: cut to a view of the moon through an exotic tree. sound of drums and african pipe music.
scene change: cut to a desert village made up of grass huts on sand. some african women are sitting around a fire talking. in the background more people walking around, sitting, etc. spike, wearing all black, strides between the huts. he passes an african man walking the other way.
scene direction: spike continues walking, his face determined. another villager tries to stop him, saying something in an african language.
villager: toyenza coyengara. erio mtuwana.
spike: not asking for permission, mate.
scene direction: spike never stops walking, strides past the man and onward. the man yells after him but doesn't follow.
villager: ymirira! odja kufa! ymirira!
scene direction: spike enters a dark cave. he slows down. it's almost completely black. he flicks open his lighter, revealing paintings on the cave walls. images of people's faces in pain, bodies with blood pouring out of them, skulls. spike looks at them, a little nervous. the music continues.
scene direction: more paintings. one depicts a black figure holding out an arm toward another figure, which is red and dripping blood.
scene direction: a breeze blows out the lighter. spike looks at it, slowly flicks it closed and continues into the cave. then a deep gravelly voice speaks.
voice: you seek me, vampire?
scene direction: spike looks nervous, but covers it.
spike: you do the finger paintings? nice work.
scene direction: we see a demon in the darkness, but all we can see is an indistinct shape and a pair of green glowing eyes.
demon: answer me.
spike: yeah. i seek you.
demon: something about a woman. the slayer.
scene direction: spike nods, barely concealed anger
spike: thinks she's better than me. ever since i got this bleeding chip in my head, things ain't been right. everything's gone to hell.
demon: and you want to return to your former self.
spike: yeah.
scene direction: close on the green glowing eyes as the demon laughs evilly.
spike: what?
demon: look what she's reduced you to.
spike: it's this bloody chip-
demon: you were a legendary dark warrior, and you let yourself be castrated.
scene direction: demon spike looking angry
demon: and you have the audacity to crawl in here and demand restoration?
spike: i'm still a warrior.
demon: you're a pathetic excuse for a demon.
scene direction: spike angry
spike: yeah? i'll show you pathetic. give me your best shot.
demon: you'd never endure the trials required to grant your request.
spike: do your worst. but when i win ... i want what i came here for.
scene direction: the demon watches him, breathes loudly but says nothing.
spike: bitch is gonna see a change.
scene change: cut to interior magic shop. close on the piles of books on the table, their pages all blank from willow's actions earlier.
scene direction: pan over to the counter where xander is trying to lead anya toward the table. anya is still partly frozen from willow's spell.
xander: you feeling any change? can you talk?
scene direction: anya pulls away, not looking at him.
anya: it's wearing off.
scene direction: she sits down on the bench.
anya: willow was here earlier. she put the whammy on me and went straight to the dark arts books. sucked them dry.
scene direction: xander awkwardly
xander: look, anya, something terrible happened.
anya: i know.
scene direction: anya softly
anya: tara.
scene direction: xander nods
xander: willow's out for blood, big time. we need to find her before she finds warren. is there something you can do, a, a locator spell?
anya: i don't need a spell.
scene direction: anya a bit reluctantly
anya: i can feel her.
xander: you can...?
anya: feel her. her thirst for vengeance, it's overwhelming.
xander: is that like, left over from your vengeance demon days? you just sense her?
anya: no. not left over.
scene direction: she gives him a meaningful look. the clue hits.
xander: oh.
anya: yeah.
scene direction: anya sound of the bell over the door
xander: when?
scene direction: anya sourly
anya: when do you think?
scene direction: buffy rushes over.
buffy: is everyone okay? did willow -
anya: got her power boost and took off.
xander: anya's ... anya was saying she knows where willow is.
buffy: a spell?
scene direction: xander bitterly
xander: not exactly. seems anya got her vengeance on again.
scene direction: buffy stares at anya
buffy: oh.
xander: so, willow's all wrathy ... why don't you go to her? isn't that your gig?
scene direction: anya defensively
anya: normally, i'd have to ... but she doesn't want me.
buffy: she wants to do it herself.
anya: yeah.
buffy: look, anya, we don't have much time. which side of this are you on?
scene direction: anya hesitates.
xander: if you know where she is, you can help us.
scene direction: anya stands up, sighs
anya: i'll help. but i'm helping willow.
scene direction: buffy and xander accept this.
anya: she's close to him. he's in the woods.
scene direction: buffy and xander exchange a look.
scene change: cut to the woods, night. willow walks along, holding the bloody shirt. the bushes bend back out of her way as she passes. she walks slowly and calmly.
scene change: cut to another part of the woods. warren is running along, shoving branches and bushes out of his way. he's wearing a backpack.
scene direction: willow comes to a small clearing, looks around, smiles a little.
willow: run all night, warren. i'll still find-
scene direction: suddenly something hits her. she falls down face-first. we see warren standing behind her. a long-handled axe is buried in willow's back.
scene direction: warren stares down at her, looking nervous.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. warren stands over willow, still nervous, but starting to smile a little.
scene direction: suddenly willow rises upward and onto her feet, lifted by magic. she turns to face warren, reaching her arm behind her to pull the axe out of her back. warren stares at her fearfully.
willow: axe, not gonna cut it.
scene direction: she tosses the axe to the ground. warren runs off. willow follows.
scene direction: warren runs through the forest, panting, reaching behind him to pull something out of his backpack.
scene direction: it's a small metal box. warren stops running and pulls a pin on the side of the box. little metal wings appear from holes on two sides of the box. the wings begin to flap.
scene direction: warren smiles as the box lifts off his hand and up into the air. it zooms away with quick flitting movements like a bat.
scene change: cut to willow walking calmly through the woods. the winged box flies up to her. she looks at it in surprise. suddenly the box explodes.
scene direction: but the explosion, instead of moving continuously outward, only expands to a diameter of about ten feet. it surrounds willow in a shimmering ball of energy like solidified air and fire, holding her motionless.
scene direction: but then she steps forward, and the ball shatters into large pieces like glass. willow resumes walking.
scene change: cut to warren running desperately through the woods, looking back over his shoulder. he turns to face front again and finds willow directly in front of him. warren stops short, gasping.
scene direction: warren nervous laugh
warren: cute. that's a cute trick.
scene direction: willow is silent, just walks toward him. he backs away, very nervous.
warren: it was an accident, you know.
willow: oh. you mean, instead of killing my best friend, you killed my girlfriend.
warren: it ... it wasn't personal, that's all.
scene direction: close on warren's hand in his pants pocket, grasping for something. he continues moving backward as willow continues advancing on him.
willow: well, this is.
scene direction: warren turns to run away. willow holds out both her hands and sends a huge blast of magical energy at warren, knocking him down. he quickly pulls his arms out of his backpack straps.
warren: capture!
scene direction: he throws something at willow, looks like a small ball of blue goo. it hits her in the stomach and begins to expand, first around her body pinning her arms to her sides, then up and down until her whole body and head are surrounded by shimmery transparent blue. her mouth opens as if trying to speak, but she can't.
scene direction: warren jumps up and runs off again, leaving his backpack behind.
scene direction: close on willow's eyes behind the goo. they begin to glow fiery orange. the goo in front of her eyes melts, and then the entire cocoon melts and slides down off her body.
scene change: cut to warren still running.
scene change: cut to willow still standing where she was. her eyes are black again.
willow: irretite.
scene direction: willow latin translation: "entangle"
scene change: cut to warren running. suddenly vines from several nearby trees whip out and wrap around his legs, then his wrists. he's trapped, spread-eagled between two trees. he looks around, panting.
scene direction: willow walks around a tree and approaches him.
willow: cute tricks.
warren: you're really asking for it, you know that?
scene direction: willow incredulous
willow: i'm asking for it?
warren: i'm gonna walk away from this. and when i do, you're gonna beg to go join your little girlfriend.
scene direction: willow frowns as if realizing something.
willow: she wasn't your first.
scene direction: warren nervous
warren: uh, first who?
willow: tara. she wasn't the first girl you killed.
warren: i don't know what you're talk-
willow: reveal!
scene direction: katrina o.s.
katrina: i should have strangled you in your sleep.
scene direction: warren's ex-girlfriend katrina, whom he killed in episode "dead things," walks around the same tree that willow just came from. she is deathly pale.
katrina: back when we shared a bed. i should have done the world a favor.
scene direction: warren nervous laugh
warren: it's a trick.
katrina: why, warren? you could have just let me go.
scene direction: warren is pretty freaked and can't look at katrina, just at willow and the surroundings. willow watches him calmly.
scene direction: warren to willow
warren: make it shut up. make it go away.
katrina: it didn't have be like that.
scene direction: warren to willow
warren: i'm not kidding!
katrina: how could you say you loved me, and do that to me?
scene direction: warren suddenly
warren: because you deserved it, bitch!
scene direction: warren finally turns to look at katrina as he yells at her. but now she's gone.
willow: because you liked it.
warren: oh, shut up!
willow: you never felt you had the power with her. not until you killed her.
scene direction: warren nasty laugh
warren: women. you know, you're just like the rest of them. mind games.
scene direction: warren talks a good game, but he's trembling in fear.
willow: you get off on it.
scene direction: willow moving closer
willow: that's why you had a mad-on for the slayer. she was your big o, wasn't she, warren?
scene direction: warren still trembling
warren: are you done yet? or can we talk some more about our feelings?
scene change: cut to another part of the forest. anya walks along, with buffy and xander following.
buffy: what's happening? what do you feel?
anya: she's stronger now. close.
xander: what about warren? has she-
anya: he's still alive. she's not done.
scene direction: cut back to warren and willow. he's getting desperate now.
scene direction: warren yells
warren: help!
scene direction: warren normal voice
warren: let me go.
scene direction: warren yells
warren: somebody! help!
willow: what's the matter? thought you wanted to talk.
warren: no.
willow: okay.
scene direction: willow opens her hand, revealing the bullet that she took from buffy's chest earlier.
willow: i'll talk.
scene direction: she waves her other hand, and warren's shirt rips open.
warren: what, what are you doing?
willow: shhh.
scene direction: warren seriously freaked
warren: hey, hey, i'm sorry, okay? i'm sorry.
scene direction: willow holds the bullet about an inch from warren's chest, right over his heart. she lets go, but the bullet continues to hover in place.
willow: wanna know what a bullet feels like, warren? a real one?
scene direction: willow warren looking nervously down at the bullet, then up at her
willow: it's not like in the comics.
warren: no. no.
willow: i think you need to. feel it.
scene direction: the bullet slowly starts to push its way into warren's chest.
warren: oh god! stop it!
willow: it's not going to make a neat little hole. first, it'll obliterate your internal organs. your lung will collapse. feels like drowning.
scene direction: warren strained
warren: please! no.
scene direction: warren is clearly in a lot of pain as the bullet continues penetrating his body.
willow: when it finally hits your spine, it'll blow your central nervous system.
warren: oh please, stop, god! please-
scene direction: willow angrily
willow: i'm talking!
scene direction: willow lifts a hand and suddenly warren's lips are sewn shut with large stitches of thread. he can only groan and whimper.
willow: the pain will be unbearable, but you won't be able to move. bullet usually travels faster than this, of course. but the dying? it'll seem like it takes forever.
scene direction: she pauses, as if affected by her own words, looking at the little wound on warren's chest. warren just grunts and squeezes his eyes shut in pain.
willow: something, isn't it?
scene direction: willow pensively
willow: one tiny piece of metal destroys everything.
scene direction: willow warren groaning loudly
willow: it ripped her insides out ... took her light away. from me. from the world.
scene direction: now she looks warren in the eye again, re-focusing. he continues trembling, groaning in pain and fear.
willow: now the one person who should be here is gone ... and a waste like you gets to live.
scene direction: another shot of the bullet hole in warren's chest.
willow: tiny piece of metal. can you feel it now?
scene direction: warren continues whimpering in pain.
scene change: cut to the others still walking.
anya: over there.
scene direction: she leads them off to the left.
scene direction: cut back to warren and willow. he continues grunting through his sewn-shut mouth.
willow: i said, can you feel it?
scene direction: she waves her hand and the stitches disappear.
warren: please! god! i did wrong, i see that now. i need, i need jail! i need ... but you, you don't want this. you're, you're not a bad person. not like me.
scene direction: willow stares at him.
scene direction: buffy o.s.
buffy: willow!
scene direction: willow looks over. the others are visible a few hundred feet away, rushing toward her.
warren: oh, and when you get caught, you'll lose them too. your friends.
scene direction: warren panting
warren: you don't want that. i know you're in pain, but-
willow: bored now.
scene direction: willow makes a casual gesture with one hand. a bolt of magic rips through warren and tears the skin off his body in a single piece.
scene direction: anya, buffy, and xander arrive just in time to see this.
xander: oh my god.
scene direction: warren's skinless body sags against the vines that still hold him. very icky. willow stands looking at it.
scene direction: buffy shocked
buffy: what did you do?
scene direction: willow continues looking at the lifeless body.
buffy: willow, what did you do?
scene direction: willow looks over at her friends, then back at the body. suddenly it bursts into flame and burns to nothing in an instant.
scene direction: willow calmly
willow: one down.
scene direction: smoke begins to curl up around willow's body as red fire flashes in her eyes again. lightning flashes as her whole body dissipates into smoke and is gone.
scene direction: the others stand there staring in horror.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon.