scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: open on buffy lying on the floor of the magic box. she lifts her head, sits up and stares toward the door.
buffy: giles?
scene direction: giles just stands there with a grim expression.
scene direction: anya, on the floor in another part of the magic shop, also looks over as she stands up.
anya: giles?
scene direction: giles still doesn't respond to either of them.
scene direction: willow o.s.
willow: uh oh.
scene direction: reveal willow still lying on the floor where giles's blast of magic threw her.
scene direction: willow sarcastic
willow: daddy's home. i'm in wicked trouble now.
scene direction: willow sits up and wipes her bloody nose with her hand, looks at the blood, wipes again. her hair is still black and her face still covered with dark veins, although her eyes are normal.
giles: you have no idea.
scene direction: giles willow sitting up
giles: you have to stop what you're doing.
scene direction: willow fake smile
willow: uhh, sorry. can't do that.
scene direction: willow giles walking closer
willow: i'm not finished yet.
scene direction: willow starts trying to get up, somewhat shaky.
giles: neither am i. stay down.
scene direction: giles gestures at willow with one hand and she falls back onto the floor, wincing.
scene direction: anya softly to giles
anya: how'd you do that?
scene direction: giles ignores anya, still completely focused on willow.
scene direction: willow small laugh
willow: that's borrowed power. no way is it gonna be strong enough- giles: i'm here to help you.
scene direction: willow rolling eyes
willow: thanks, but i can kill a couple geeks all by myself.
scene direction: willow giles walking slowly closer
willow: but, hey, if you'd like to watch ... i mean, that's what you watchers are good at, right? watching? butting in on things that don't concern you?
giles: you concern me, willow. stay on this path and you'll wind up dead.
buffy: willow. listen to him. i don't want to fight you anymore.
willow: i don't want to fight you either.
scene direction: willow looking at giles
willow: i wanna fight him.
scene direction: willow starts to get up again, not normally but with magic, rising up to her feet without apparent effort.
giles: stay down.
scene direction: giles makes his gesture again but willow makes one of her own and blocks him.
willow: no.
scene direction: giles looks a little alarmed. buffy looks wary, moves over to stand beside giles.
willow: remember that little spat we had before you left?
scene direction: willow shot of anya watching nervously
willow: when you were under the delusion that you were still relevant here?
scene direction: willow walking closer
willow: you called me a rank, arrogant amateur. well buckle up, rupert...
scene direction: anya, buffy, and giles continue to watch willow uneasily.
scene direction: suddenly a magic light from nowhere begins to light up willow's body, and her eyes go black again as a humming noise begins to rise in pitch and volume.
scene direction: willow deep resonant voice
willow: 'cause i've turned pro.
scene direction: the humming/whirring noise continues as willow begins a spell.
willow: asmodea, bring forth-- giles:
scene direction: willow gesturing
willow: vincire!
scene direction: green magic energy shoots from giles's hand and forms a band around willow's torso, pinning her arms against her body. it glows with a green light that makes willow's skin appear green too.
willow: what? no! get off!
scene direction: willow struggling
willow: solvo, libero...
scene direction: giles continues holding out his hand toward her. suddenly willow throws back her head and closes her eyes, apparently unconscious. her body floats up into the air and hovers about a foot off the ground. the band of magic holding her changes to a more contained blue-grey color.
scene direction: anya and buffy watch warily. buffy moves closer to giles. willow continues to float in midair.
buffy: what did you do?
giles: contained her and her powers within a binding field. it puts her in a kind of ... stasis for the time- giles looks at buffy for the first time, pauses. buffy continues staring at willow.
giles: you cut your hair.
scene direction: buffy looks at him, gets teary and hugs him.
scene direction: anya watches them hugging. she walks up behind them and fidgets for a moment.
anya: i'm blonde.
scene direction: giles and buffy look at her, still with their arms around each other.
anya: i, i colored my hair.
scene direction: anya pauses
anya: again. i'm blonde.
giles: yes, i noticed.
scene direction: giles holds out one arm and anya joins the hug.
scene direction: after a moment giles disengages from anya and buffy, looks at willow again. he walks over to willow who is still floating in the air, unconscious, with her head hanging back.
giles: i'm very sorry about tara.
scene direction: giles looks sad, stands there for a moment, starts to walk away.
willow: this...
scene direction: giles pauses, looks at her in surprise. willow opens her eyes a little and cranes her neck toward him.
willow: ...won't hold me ... forever.
scene direction: giles looks a bit alarmed. buffy and anya look grim.
scene change: cut to later. buffy and giles are in the workout room at the back of the magic shop. buffy stands by the pommel horse while giles is picking nervously at the practice dummy in a corner.
giles: i came as soon as i heard.
buffy: the council?
giles: the council haven't a clue. about much of anything, really.
scene direction: giles walking toward buffy, leaning on the horse
giles: no, there's an ... an extremely powerful coven in devon. they sensed the rise of a dangerous magical force here in sunnydale. a dark force, fueled by grief.
buffy: willow.
giles: i'd so hoped it wasn't her.
scene direction: giles pauses
giles: and then a seer in the coven told me about tara. that's when the coven ... imbued me with their powers.
buffy: and sent you here to bring willow down.
scene direction: giles looks at her
giles: buffy, what's happened here?
scene direction: buffy pacing
buffy: god. i don't even know where to start.
giles: well, willow's clearly been abusing the magicks.
scene direction: buffy nods
buffy: she has. she was ... and i barely even noticed. giles, everything's just been so...
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: xander left anya at the altar, and anya's a vengeance demon again...
scene direction: buffy giles looking shocked
buffy: dawn's a total klepto ... money's been so tight that i've been slinging burgers at the doublemeat palace ...
scene direction: buffy looks down at the floor
buffy: and i've been sleeping with spike.
scene direction: buffy pauses, looks up at giles, looks as if she can't believe she just said that.
scene direction: giles stares at her. she looks away again, embarrassed.
scene direction: suddenly giles starts laughing. he covers his mouth with his hand but can't stop. buffy stares at him, pouty.
scene direction: giles trying to calm down
giles: sorry.
scene direction: he bursts out laughing again. buffy rolls her eyes, now just looks amused. giles keeps laughing and slowly buffy starts to laugh too.
scene direction: they both stand there laughing.
scene change: cut to the main magic box room. anya is cleaning up some of the debris on the floor. she puts a bunch of stuff into a small basket and carries it toward the counter, past the still floating willow.
scene direction: willow's eyes open slightly and she watches anya walk across the room. her voice echoes between them although her mouth doesn't move.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: anya...
scene direction: anya turns around, looks at willow nervously.
anya: willow.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: i need you, anya. i need you to do something for me.
scene direction: anya twists her hands together nervously, gathers her nerve and moves a little closer to willow.
anya: i know what you're trying to do. and i hate to burst your bubble, but that mind control mojo doesn't work on vengeance demons, so why don't you just- willow:
scene direction: anya telepathically
anya: stop talking and listen.
scene direction: anya nods
anya: okay.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: ou need to free me.
scene direction: anya uncertain
anya: no.
scene direction: anya turns and starts walking toward the back.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: you don't want to call out to them.
scene direction: willow anya stops
willow: you want to take away this binding spell.
scene direction: anya turns back toward willow
anya: i don't know how.
scene direction: willow telepathically
willow: i do. do you want me to tell you?
scene direction: anya hesitates, looking anxious.
scene direction: cut back to the workout room. buffy and giles are still laughing helplessly. buffy is leaning over the pommel horse.
scene direction: giles laughing
giles: duct tape?
scene direction: buffy laughing
buffy: on their mouths. so the demon could eat them...
giles: because they were figments.
scene direction: more laughing.
buffy: all of it! you, sunnydale ... and i was just some nutcase in l.a.
scene direction: giles still laughing
giles: of course. why didn't we see it before?
scene direction: slowly they stop laughing, and look much calmer than before. buffy holds her stomach.
scene direction: giles can you forgive me?
buffy: for what?
giles: i should never have left.
buffy: no. you were right to leave. we're just ... stupid.
giles: i know you're all stupid.
scene direction: giles buffy smiling
giles: i should never have abandoned you.
buffy: no. giles, you were right about everything. it is time i was an adult.
giles: sometimes the most adult thing you can do is ... ask for help when you need it.
buffy: now you tell me.
scene direction: they smile. giles chuckles a little.
scene direction: buffy quietly
buffy: i guess ... i wasn't ready before. it took a long time for that feeling to go away ... the feeling that i wasn't really here. it was like ... when i clawed my way out of that grave, i left something behind. part of me. i just...
scene direction: buffy pauses, looks giles in the eye
buffy: i don't understand ... why i'm back.
giles: you have a calling.
buffy: but it was my time, giles. someone would have taken my place.
scene direction: buffy giles grimacing
buffy: so why?
scene direction: giles looks away, pensive, not answering.
buffy: right.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: what's gonna happen to willow?
scene direction: giles looks at her, straightens up.
giles: well, the coven is working on a ... way to extract her powers without ... killing her. and, uh, should she survive, you ought to know, buffy, that there's no guarantee she'll ... be as she was.
scene direction: giles buffy looking concerned
giles: willow has killed a human being. how will she be able to live with herself?
scene direction: willow o.s.
willow: i wouldn't worry about that.
scene direction: giles and buffy turn toward the doorway.
scene direction: we see anya hovering in the doorway, apparently unconscious.
scene direction: giles and buffy stare in alarm.
scene direction: willow moves out from behind anya. her eyes are black again.
willow: willow doesn't live here anymore.
scene direction: willow lets go of anya and she falls to the floor.
scene direction: zoom in on buffy looking alarmed.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: open on the same scene. willow stands in the doorway over anya's unconscious body.
scene direction: buffy looks at giles, then starts forward to attack willow. willow lifts her hand and sends a bolt of magic at buffy, who flies back, crashes against the wall opposite, and falls to the ground.
scene direction: giles watches this with alarm, then starts toward willow himself.
giles: vincire!
scene direction: giles holds out a hand toward willow, sending another binding spell toward her, but she waves her hand at it.
willow: solutum.
scene direction: the binding field dissolves. giles lowers his hand. willow takes a few steps into the room.
scene direction: willow small smile
willow: fool me once...
scene direction: on the wall behind willow we see a variety of knives and throwing-weapons hanging in a case. they suddenly lift off the wall and hover in the air.
giles: willow...
scene direction: willow shaking a finger
willow: shame on you.
scene direction: the knives begin to fly toward giles. he looks to his left and yells something.
scene direction: the practice dummy flies over in front of giles, and all the knives slam into it.
scene direction: willow makes an angry face and waves her hand. the dummy falls aside. giles looks determined, makes a ball of magic in his hand and throws it at willow.
giles: excudo!
scene direction: willow flies backward into the brick wall and through it into the main magic box room behind. she slams into a pillar that supports the upper loft, and falls to the floor in a shower of bricks, debris, etc.
scene change: cut to exterior residential street, night. dawn and xander walk along, with jonathan and andrew behind them.
dawn: where are we going?
xander: i have no idea.
dawn: what?
xander: i don't know, okay? i can't even run away well. and that's something i'm usually good at.
dawn: maybe we should we go back and help.
xander: yeah, 'cause i've been such a big help already. standing around like a monkey while buffy gets shot. tara's dead ... and willow ... losing...
scene direction: dawn annoyed
dawn: well, feeling sorry for yourself isn't helping either, xander, okay?
scene direction: beat. dawn has a calculating expression.
dawn: you know, if spike were here, he'd go back and fight.
xander: sure, if he wasn't too busy trying to rape your sister.
scene direction: dawn stops walking and stares.
dawn: what?!
scene direction: xander pauses, then continues walking, shaking his head.
xander: forget it.
scene direction: dawn following
dawn: i don't believe you.
xander: fine.
scene direction: dawn uncertain
dawn: he wouldn't do that.
xander: is this blind spot like a genetic trait with the summers women? the only useful thing spike ever did was finally leave town.
scene change: cut to the cave in africa. weird screaming and screeching noises, sounds of punching.
scene direction: something goes flying across the dark cave, hits the ground and rolls into a convenient patch of light. it's a bald demon head with big pointy ears.
scene direction: pan up to reveal spike who strolls in holding another demon head in one hand. he's bare-chested and bruised in many places.
spike: well, that was a bloody doddle and piece o'piss.
scene direction: he staggers and goes to his knees wearily, but maintains his sarcastic tone.
spike: got any more ruddy tests for me, you ponce? i'll take anything you can throw at me, if it'll get me what i need to take care of the slayer. give her what's coming to her.
scene direction: spike sniffs angrily
spike: so you just bring it on. bring on the whole- he pauses, looks confused. weird skittering noises.
spike: bloody hell.
scene direction: we see spike from the waist up as lots and lots of large black insects, maybe beetles, start crawling up his body. they swarm up his chest and neck and onto his face as he squeezes his eyes shut and grunts in distaste.
scene change: cut to magic shop, main room. the pillar is lying on the floor and furniture, sparking occasionally with electricity. pan slowly across the wreckage of the shop, which has taken quite a beating from all the fighting.
scene direction: pan down to reveal a large wooden piece of furniture (bookcase?) lying on its side. next to it is a pile of books, some of which are on fire.
scene direction: a pair of feet walk up next to the books. pan up to reveal willow. still wearing all black (though her clothes are now dirty), still with the veiny face and the black hair. her eyes are normal. there's a cut across her cheek. she smiles.
willow: that all you got, jeeves?
scene direction: reveal giles standing in the doorway to the workout room. he looks very tired and bruised. his clothes are dirty also.
willow: 'cause, i could stand to go another ten rounds. whereas ... you can barely stand.
scene direction: giles wearily
giles: your powers ... may be undeniably greater. but i can still hurt you if i have to.
willow: boy, you just don't get it, do you? nothing can hurt me now.
scene direction: she lifts a hand to indicate her bloody face.
willow: this?
scene direction: she waves her hand in front of her face and the cut heals.
willow: ...is nothing. it's all ... nothing.
giles: i see. if you lose someone you love ... the other people in your life who care about you...
scene direction: buffy appears in the doorway behind giles, watching.
giles: ...become meaningless. i wonder what tara would say about that.
scene direction: willow grimly
willow: you can ask her yourself.
scene direction: willow lifts her hand and sends a bolt of magic toward giles. buffy rushes forward, pushes giles forward and out from under the loft. and just in time, as the latest magical blast destroys the loft's stability and the whole thing comes tumbling down.
scene direction: buffy and giles land in a heap on the floor, books and rubble raining down on them.
scene direction: buffy lifts herself up on her elbows to look at willow.
willow: you're always saving everyone. it's kinda pesky.
scene direction: willow looks down at the burning stuff next to her. she bends down and picks up a ball of flame in her hand. buffy stares.
willow: you probably even think you're buying escape time for jonathan and the other one. well, i got a little secret for ya.
scene direction: willow buffy looking upset
willow: i can kill them from anywhere i want.
scene direction: willow looking at the ball of flame
willow: with this.
scene direction: willow waves her other hand over the ball of flame and it begins to grow.
willow: it'll find them. it'll bury them.
scene direction: willow giles lifting his head painfully
willow: along with anyone helping those dead men walking.
scene direction: buffy gets painfully to her feet, staring at the ball of flame.
buffy: don't.
scene direction: willow mockingly
willow: unless ... somebody, somehow ... can get there in time to save them.
scene direction: willow pause
willow: huh. oh, well.
scene direction: she throws the ball up into the air. it bursts through the ceiling, leaving a large hole.
willow: fly, my pretty, fly.
scene direction: the ball of fire disappears through the hole. we can see stars above.
scene direction: willow to buffy, smiling
willow: see what i did there?
scene direction: buffy looks down at the injured giles.
giles: go.
scene direction: buffy runs past willow and toward the door.
willow: good luck.
scene direction: willow turns her attention back to giles.
willow: thought she'd never leave.
scene direction: willow walking toward him
willow: now i finally have you all to myself.
scene change: cut to the street. buffy runs out onto the sidewalk, looks up and sees the fireball flying away several dozen feet off the ground. she runs after it.
scene direction: cut back to the magic shop. willow paces back and forth.
willow: you're such a hypocrite. waltzing in here with your borrowed magicks. so you can tell me what? magic's bad? behave? be a good girl?
scene direction: willow chuckles
willow: well, i ... i don't think you're in any position to be telling me what to do.
scene direction: willow looks up. pan up to reveal giles pinned against the ceiling, groaning in pain.
willow: do you?
scene direction: willow gestures with one finger and giles falls to the floor. he lands hard, on his stomach, and stays there making pained faces. he still has blood all over his face.
scene direction: willow scornful
willow: i used to think you had all the answers. that i had so much to learn from you.
giles: willow...
scene direction: she gestures again. giles flies up to the ceiling again, groaning as he slams into it.
scene direction: willow looking up at him
willow: you were jealous. still are. just couldn't bear that i was the one with power. that's why you ran away.
giles: incurso!
scene direction: green magic flies from giles's mouth and hits willow.
willow: that's why you- she stumbles backward from the magic blow, and giles falls to the floor again.
scene direction: willow panting
willow: that ... was rude! now i forgot what i was saying.
scene direction: giles painfully
giles: perhaps you're not as strong ... as you think you are.
scene direction: willow glares at giles as he struggles to get up.
giles: you're expending way too much of your mystical energy to maintain your powers. at this rate you're going to ... burn out. and up.
scene direction: willow annoyed
willow: blah blah blah.
scene direction: giles on his knees
giles: willow, you ... you need to stop.
willow: what i need...
scene direction: suddenly she moves forward with magic speed and is next to giles, grabbing him.
willow: ...is a little pick-me-up.
scene direction: she puts her hand on giles's chest and it glows with orange-red energy. giles gasps in pain. close shot on willow's hand as she drains energy out of giles.
scene direction: suddenly she lets him go and staggers backward. giles falls over on his back.
willow: whoa. head rush.
scene direction: she stumbles against the counter and slides down it to sit on the floor, her image blurring. she gasps and pants with pleasure.
willow: wow. whoa. who's your supplier? this is ... wow.
scene direction: shot of giles lying there barely conscious.
willow: it's incredible.
scene direction: willow panting
willow: i mean, i am so juiced ... giles, it's like ... no ... mortal person has ... ever had ... this much power. ever. it's like i, i'm connected to everything ... i can feel ... it feels like ... i ... i can feel...
scene direction: she pauses and her smile begins to fade.
willow: ...everyone. oh. oh my god. all the emotion. all the pain. no, it, it's too much. it's just too much.
scene direction: giles weakly
giles: willow ... it doesn't have to be ... like that. you ... you can stop it.
scene direction: willow is bent over now with her hands on the floor as if in pain.
scene direction: willow panting
willow: yeah. i, i can. i have to stop this.
scene direction: willow getting up
willow: i'll make it go away.
giles: willow...
willow: oh, you poor bastards!
scene direction: magic begins to swirl around willow and she lifts into the air. lightning flashes around her body.
willow: your suffering has to end.
scene direction: a cloud of magic like a tornado gathers around her and she disappears.
giles: no...
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: open on a close shot of a wall or door, and a foot kicking it.
scene direction: xander o.s.
xander: ow.
scene direction: xander kicks again
xander: ow.
scene change: cut to wider shot. we're in a cemetery and xander is kicking the door of a crypt, repeating "ow" with each kick. a few yards away dawn stands watching.
scene direction: pan past dawn to discover jonathan and andrew at another crypt, using their swords in an attempt to pry the door open.
jonathan: ow! son of a bitch!
andrew: buttwipe!
jonathan: i wasn't talking to you.
andrew: oh. reflex.
scene direction: xander still kicking
xander: man, they've really tightened security up here lately. one too many squatters from the hellmouth.
scene direction: andrew and jonathan walk toward xander.
scene direction: andrew sarcastic
andrew: hide out in the cemetery. what a fantastic idea.
xander: yeah, i'm working on a whole "shut the hell up" pitch you might like too.
scene direction: dawn noticing something above and behind them
dawn: xander?
scene direction: xander to andrew
xander: i've had just about as much as i can stand baby-sitting a couple of social retards who don't appreciate- dawn: xander!
xander: what?
dawn: what is that?
scene direction: xander moves closer to her and looks up where she's looking. the nerds look too.
scene direction: we see willow's fireball flying toward them.
scene direction: buffy o.s.
buffy: get out of there!
scene direction: in the distance we see buffy running toward the others, leaping over headstones and such.
buffy: move!
scene direction: she leaps forward and grabs both jonathan and andrew, pulling them to the ground. the fireball hits the ground between them and all five are thrown to the ground.
scene direction: xander hits his head on a tombstone. dawn falls down but immediately starts trying to crawl toward buffy. the earth shakes and dawn staggers.
buffy: dawn! dawn, hold on.
scene direction: buffy gets up and tries to reach dawn but suddenly a huge hole opens up in the ground, right underneath dawn. dawn screams as she falls into the hole. buffy, trying to grab dawn, also falls. they land on a dirt floor some twenty or thirty feet below. dirt from the hole rains down on them.
scene direction: buffy looks up, just in time to see one of the geeks' swords falling at her. she rolls out of the way just in time. the sword lands with its point in the ground. dawn stares fearfully.
scene direction: buffy stands up. the second sword falls next to the first.
scene direction: dawn continues looking frightened. buffy brushes dirt off herself and looks around.
scene direction: they're in some sort of cave with uneven rock/dirt walls. sections of coffins protrude from the walls in various places. they both look up at the hole above them. it doesn't look easily climbable.
scene change: cut to above. andrew and jonathan get up and walk to the edge of the hole, stare into it. it's dark and we can't really see dawn and buffy at the bottom.
scene direction: the nerds look over at xander, lying unconscious next to the headstone that he hit.
scene direction: jonathan turns to andrew.
jonathan: mexico, huh?
scene direction: andrew looks at him.
scene direction: they turn and run off.
scene change: cut to the magic box. the door to the workout room opens and anya comes out. as she walks through the opening, the door falls off its hinges. anya jumps and gasps, startled.
scene direction: she walks slowly into the main room, looking around at the destruction. suddenly she spots giles.
anya: giles.
scene direction: she runs over and kneels next to giles, who is lying on the floor with his eyes closed, unmoving. anya shakes him slightly.
anya: giles!
scene direction: his eyes pop open, staring at the ceiling. anya looks relieved.
giles: anya.
scene direction: anya upset
anya: i'm so sorry. willow forced me to free her with her brain. are you okay?
giles: i can see...
scene direction: anya uncertain
anya: oh. it's a ... miracle.
giles: willow ... i can see her. she took the magic i had and ... now ... i know where she is. i can feel what ... oh, god.
anya: giles ... you have to rest.
giles: silly girl. i'm dying.
scene direction: anya alarmed
anya: no you're not.
giles: it was ... it was the only way. i thought we ... there'd be a chance ... now ... i know where willow is. she's going to finish it.
anya: finish what?
giles: the world.
scene direction: anya stares at him.
scene change: cut to shot of the sun rising through clouds.
scene change: cut to shot of the hole in the ground in the cemetery, the morning sunshine lighting it.
scene change: cut to close shot of hands clutching the tree roots that line the edges of the hole.
scene direction: we see buffy standing on a coffin, attempting to climb up the side of the hole. dawn stands below, watching anxiously.
scene direction: the roots in buffy's hands give way and she falls back onto the top of the coffin with a yell.
dawn: buffy!
scene direction: buffy quickly scrambles off the coffin and brushes herself off, staring up at the hole.
dawn: are you okay?
buffy: we have to get out of here.
scene direction: buffy yells
buffy: xander!
dawn: i think i saw him hit his head.
scene direction: buffy yells
buffy: xander!
scene direction: no response. far above, the girls can see sunny blue sky and palm trees.
scene direction: buffy goes over to a wall and starts tugging on a wooden coffin that's sticking out of the wall.
dawn: this looks a little like spike's place. you know, under his crypt.
scene direction: buffy ignores this, continues tugging frantically.
dawn: what are you doing?
buffy: if we can pull these out, we can use the coffins for height.
scene direction: buffy tugging
buffy: maybe get out of here!
scene direction: buffy looks around, picks up one of the swords and tries to use it to pry the coffin loose.
dawn: maybe one of the tunnels spike uses is around here. uh, we could use it to get to his place.
scene direction: buffy digging
buffy: that's the last place on earth we need to be.
scene direction: dawn annoyed
dawn: oh, but it was good enough for you to take me there after what he did to you.
scene direction: buffy finally turns to look at her.
buffy: what he...
dawn: tried to do. whatever.
scene direction: buffy realizing, annoyed
buffy: xander.
dawn: so it's true?
buffy: dawn, you may not have noticed, we're in really big trouble here. this isn't- dawn: why did you not tell me?
buffy: because you didn't need to know.
dawn: yes, i do. i need to know! i'm not a kid anymore.
scene direction: buffy angry
buffy: dawn, i'm trying to protect you.
scene direction: dawn angry
dawn: well, you can't! look around, buffy. we're trapped in here! willow's killing and people i love keep dying! and you cannot protect me from that.
scene direction: beat. buffy looks sad as she realizes dawn is right.
scene direction: buffy whispers
buffy: dawn...
scene direction: xander o.s.
xander: hello?
scene direction: buffy and dawn look up.
scene direction: buffy calls
buffy: xander?
scene direction: we see xander kneeling by the edge of the pit, looking down.
xander: buffy, you okay? where's dawn?
scene direction: shot of the pit from xander's pov. dawn moves next to buffy so he can see her.
dawn: here.
buffy: are jonathan and andrew up there with you?
scene direction: xander looks around.
xander: no, they musta skedaddled when i was out. weasels. whoa!
scene direction: the edge of the pit, where xander's hands were leaning, gives way. the earth and grass fall into the hole as xander just barely manages to avoid falling in.
buffy: xander, you've gotta find some kind of rope or something and get us out of here.
scene direction: xander looking around
xander: right. okay, i'll, uh, i'll take a look around.
buffy: and hurry up before- suddenly anya appears in front of buffy, in a shimmer of magic.
scene direction: anya looking around
anya: holy frijole!
buffy: anya! what are you doing here? where's giles?
dawn: giles?
anya: he's still at the magic shop.
dawn: giles is back?
scene direction: dawn buffy rolling her eyes
dawn: you didn't tell me that.
scene direction: buffy to anya
buffy: did he stop willow?
anya: no. and things just got a whole lot worse.
scene direction: shot of xander looking down. he can hear the conversation.
buffy: how worse?
anya: end of the world worse. willow's going to destroy it.
scene direction: dawn amazed
dawn: she can do that?
anya: she can and she will when she gets to where she's going.
buffy: where's she going?
anya: big old satanic temple. kingman's bluff?
scene direction: dawn and buffy frown.
buffy: there's ... no temple on kingman's bluff.
scene change: cut to a wide stretch of ground (kingman's bluff). aerial shot of the bluff. a huge steeple begins rising out of the ground, pushing through the earth and rising up at an angle. we see willow standing a few yards away, holding out her hands toward it. her eyes are black again.
scene direction: the steeple continues to rise. various stone carvings (gargoyles, etc.) decorate its surface. there's a large carving of a snake-haired woman with her mouth open and a long snakelike tongue sticking out, another snake wrapped around her body.
scene direction: at the very top of the steeple there's a pentacle (five-pointed star with one point down) topped by a trident (three-pronged fork).
scene direction: willow continues to hold out her arms as her magic lifts the steeple out of the ground. it protrudes from the earth at a slightly crooked angle.
scene direction: buffy o.s.
buffy: proserpexa?
scene direction: cut back to the pit.
buffy: who's she?
anya: uh, way up there in the hierarchy of she-demons. her followers intended to use her effigy to destroy the world. they all died when the temple got swallowed up in the big earthquake of '32.
buffy: so now seventy years later, willow's going to make their dreams come true.
anya: she's going to drain the planet's life force, and funnel its energy through proserpexa's effigy and, and burn the earth to a cinder.
scene direction: anya dawn looking at buffy in alarm
buffy: not if i can help it.
anya: you can't.
scene direction: buffy and dawn stare at anya.
scene direction: anya something else giles said. no magic or supernatural force can stop her.
buffy: what does that mean?
anya: don't know. he, he said, "the slayer can't stop her," and then he said a bunch of other stuff.
scene direction: anya anxiously
anya: he really wasn't too clear.
buffy: anya, what are you- anya:
scene direction: buffy nervous
buffy: i ... i should get back to him. he's alone.
scene direction: buffy worried
buffy: is he okay?
scene direction: anya fidgets nervously as buffy and dawn watch, anxious.
anya: don't think he ... has a lot of time left.
scene direction: anya dawn gasping
anya: i'm sorry.
scene direction: anya disappears, leaving buffy and dawn both looking solemn and worried. after a moment buffy looks upward and yells harshly.
buffy: xander! where is that rope?!
dawn: buffy...
buffy: xander!
scene direction: buffy quieter
buffy: where is he?
scene direction: dawn upset
dawn: you heard what anya said ... you hear what giles said.
buffy: i heard.
scene direction: buffy upset
buffy: and i don't care, i have to try...
scene direction: buffy bends over and begins trying to move one of the coffins.
scene change: cut to the bluff. willow stands opposite the temple. the carving of the woman is at ground level and life-size, facing willow.
willow: from the pit of forgotten shadows...
scene direction: cut back to the pit as buffy and dawn shove at a coffin.
scene direction: willow's and buffy's lines overlap.
buffy: i'm not just gonna sit here while willow incinerates what i'm chosen to protect.
willow: awaken, sister of the dark, awaken- cut back to the bluff. willow pauses, looks to her right as if she can hear buffy.
buffy: i have to stop her.
willow: always the slayer...
scene direction: cut back to the pit. buffy pauses, hearing willow's words. she straightens up, looking surprised.
scene direction: willow o.s.
willow: right to the last.
scene direction: buffy uncertain
buffy: willow?
scene direction: fade from buffy to willow, who has turned away from the temple to face the direction of the cemetery.
willow: and it is the last, you know? for all your fighting ... thinking you're saving the world...
scene direction: cut back to the pit. buffy listens in amazement.
dawn: buffy?
scene direction: buffy puts up a hand to silence dawn.
willow: and in the end ... i'm the only one that can save it.
buffy: by killing us?
willow: it's the only way to stop the pain.
scene change: cut to the magic box. giles is still lying on the floor with anya kneeling by him. giles frowns slightly, as he can hear the conversation too.
scene direction: willow o.s.
willow: i can't take it anymore. but i know you, buffy.
scene direction: cut alternately between the bluff and the pit for the next few lines.
willow: you're a warrior. you won't go out without a fight. i don't really have time for one. but you should go out fighting.
buffy: willow, what are you- willow: it was me that took you out of the earth. well, now...
scene direction: buffy listens with alarm.
willow: ...the earth wants you back.
scene direction: the ground around buffy and dawn begins to rumble. suddenly the walls themselves start to turn into monsters, earth-creatures made up of dirt and rock and vines, which detach themselves from the walls and move toward buffy and dawn.
scene direction: close on the monsters' hands with a pair of large blades/claws on each hand.
scene direction: buffy and dawn look around, very scared.
scene direction: blackout.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: the cave. buffy is fighting two earth-monsters at once, swinging the sword and kicking them.
scene direction: another monster detaches from the cave walls. dawn watches fearfully.
dawn: buffy!
scene direction: buffy swings the sword and one monster's claw-hand is sliced off, falls to the ground. buffy turns around, kicks the third monster in the head. it slumps against the cave wall.
scene direction: buffy stands next to dawn, looking around. more monsters are detaching from the walls.
buffy: they just keep coming. i can't take them all.
scene direction: close on another monster's claw-hand coming out of the wall. buffy turns to dawn.
buffy: dawn. will you help me?
scene direction: dawn looks nervous, but determined.
scene direction: buffy puts the sword into dawn's hand.
dawn: i got your back.
scene direction: buffy turns, picks up the other sword from the ground. kicks one of the monsters back.
scene direction: dawn sets her jaw and rushes forward into the fray.
scene change: cut to the bluff. willow stands with her arms by her sides chanting.
willow: proserpexa ... let the cleansing fires from the depths burn away the suffering souls and bring sweet death.
scene direction: lightning crackles between willow and the statue of proserpexa. close on willow with her black eyes and hair, black veins on her face, lightning sizzling around her.
scene direction: the ground begins to shake and the wind gets even stronger. bolts of green magic shoot from willow's body toward the statue.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. anya kneels next to giles as the ground shakes here too. a light fixture falls from the ceiling and anya ducks.
scene change: cut to the cave. buffy and dawn also feel the rumbling, as it makes them stagger backward. buffy looks up nervous.
buffy: willow...
scene change: cut to the magic shop. the rumbling/shaking stops. anya looks up, looks around nervously, then looks at giles. his eyes are closed and he doesn't move.
anya: giles? giles! don't die.
scene direction: anya tearfully
anya: not yet, there-there are things i wanna tell you.
scene direction: she pauses for a moment, as if collecting her thoughts.
anya: thanks a lot for coming. it was good of you to teleport all this way.
scene direction: another tremor hits and anya ducks again, hiding her face against giles's chest until it subsides.
anya: though in retrospect, it probably would have been better if you hadn't come and given willow all that magic that made her like ten times more powerful.
scene direction: anya sadly
anya: that would have been a plus.
scene direction: cut back to the bluff. green magic continues flowing from willow toward the statue. wind swirls around them, filled with dirt and debris, etc. also, the ever-present lightning. the statue glows bright yellow-white.
scene direction: suddenly the stream of magic is interrupted and the glowing subsides, as xander appears in front of the statue.
scene direction: willow looks surprised.
xander: hey, black-eyed girl. whatcha doin'?
willow: get out of here.
xander: ah, no. you're not the only one with powers, you know. you may be a hopped-up uber-witch, but ... this carpenter can dry-wall you into the next century.
willow: i'm not joking, xander. get out of my way. now.
scene direction: willow sends a bolt of magic at xander. it lifts him off his feet and throws him to the ground at the base of the statue.
scene change: cut to close-up on giles's face, still bloody, still lying on the magic shop floor. his eyes pop open.
scene direction: giles whispers
giles: there...
scene direction: pan up to reveal anya looking at him in surprise. she has one hand under his head.
anya: what?
scene direction: giles whispers
giles: it's not over.
scene direction: giles gives a small smile, moves his hand to touch anya's hand by his head.
scene change: cut to the cave. buffy takes a hit from a monster. dawn is fighting another, swinging her sword with great concentration. the monster hits dawn's hand, making her drop the sword, and then slashes her upper arm with its claws. dawn grabs her arm with her other hand, takes a hit to the face and goes down with a shriek.
scene direction: buffy ducks underneath a monster's arm and swings her sword at another. it goes down.
buffy: dawn! i'm coming!
scene direction: dawn looks up with a determined expression as her monster prepares to attack her again. buffy is still being kept away by another monster, looks toward dawn with alarm.
scene direction: dawn ducks as the monster grabs for her, and does a somersault-roll past it, landing by her sword. she grabs the sword, gets up, and stabs the monster in the chest.
scene direction: buffy watches with amazement.
scene direction: dawn swings the sword again, slicing off the monster's head. it falls down dead.
scene direction: buffy stares.
scene direction: dawn holding up the sword, tiny smile
dawn: what? you think i never watched you?
scene direction: buffy still looks amazed. there's a very brief moment of quiet. then more monsters start to appear. buffy and dawn back up, and end up back-to-back facing the monsters, each holding her sword. they begin to fight.
scene change: cut to the bluff. close on the statue. lightning continues to flash around it.
scene direction: wide shot of willow with the lightning going. the green magic begins flowing from her again, toward the statue. earth rumbling, winds swirling, etc.
scene direction: xander sits up at the base of the temple, holding his ribs. he staggers to his feet and blocks the flow of magic again. the magic stops flowing. willow glares at him.
willow: you can't stop this.
xander: yeah, i get that. it's just, where else am i gonna go? you've been my best friend my whole life. world gonna end ... where else would i want to be?
scene direction: willow scornfully
willow: is this the master plan? you're going to stop me by telling me you love me?
xander: well, i was going to walk you off a cliff and hand you an anvil, but ... it seemed kinda cartoony.
willow: still making jokes.
xander: i'm not joking. i know you're in pain. i can't imagine the pain you're in. and i know you're about to do something apocalyptically
scene direction: xander glancing back at the statue
xander: evil and stupid, and hey.
scene direction: xander spreading out his arms
xander: i still want to hang. you're willow.
scene direction: willow angry
willow: don't call me that.
xander: first day of kindergarten. you cried because you broke the yellow crayon, and you were too afraid to tell anyone. you've come pretty far, ending the world, not a terrific notion. but the thing is? yeah. i love you. i loved crayon-breaky willow and i love ... scary veiny willow. so if i'm going out, it's here. if you wanna kill the world? well, then start with me. i've earned that.
scene direction: willow upset
willow: you think i won't?
xander: it doesn't matter. i'll still love you.
scene direction: willow angry
willow: shut up.
scene direction: willow gestures with her hand. no magic bolts of light, but xander's head jerks to the side as if he's been hit. three parallel cuts appear on his cheek, bloody as if scratched. he puts his hand up to them, looks at his fingers.
scene direction: willow watches, panting and looking a bit nervous. xander looks back up at her.
xander: i love you.
scene direction: willow makes another slashing gesture. xander doubles over and falls to his knees. panting, he gets up again, and we see that his shirt is ripped open over the heart, more scratches visible on his chest. he pants and grimaces from the pain but faces willow again.
scene direction: xander panting
xander: i ... love y- willow: shut up!
scene direction: now she does throw a blast of magic at him, and he staggers backward but doesn't fall down. willow still holds her hand out, a little bit of magic crackling around it but not as much as she had expected. she looks surprised and anxious. xander moves slowly toward her.
xander: i love you, willow.
willow: stop!
scene direction: she sends another magic blast, but it's weak and barely hurts xander at all. he continues walking toward her. willow continues holding out her hand and making the magic gesture, but nothing happens. she starts to get teary.
xander: i love you.
willow: stop.
scene direction: willow starts to cry and, as xander gets right up to her, she starts hitting him with her fists. xander just stands there and takes it. after a moment she stops hitting and starts to cry for real. she falls to her knees and xander kneels with her, puts his arms around her and holds her while she sobs.
xander: i love you.
scene direction: as willow continues to cry in xander's arms, the veins fade away from her face and her hair returns to its usual red.
scene change: cut to the cave. the earth monsters suddenly stop moving and crumble into dirt that falls to the floor.
dawn: what happened?
scene direction: buffy looks around, looks up toward the hole. the cave lightens as the sun begins to shine again.
scene direction: cut back to the bluff. xander still holding willow as she cries.
scene change: cut to the magic shop. anya sits on the stairs with her head in her hands. in foreground, giles suddenly appears in the frame, pushing himself up onto his elbows. anya looks up in surprise.
anya: giles!
scene direction: she gets up and rushes back over to him, kneels beside him.
anya: you're not dead!
giles: no.
scene direction: anya gives a little cry of happiness and hugs giles hard. he winces, makes a pained face.
giles: however, i am still in some pain.
anya: oh...
scene direction: anya lets him go
anya: well ... why aren't you dead?
scene direction: anya frowns
anya: why aren't i dead?
giles: uh, the threat's gone. willow's been stopped.
scene direction: giles tries to sit up and anya helps him.
anya: oh. you mean she's- giles: no, she's alive. it, uh ... the magic she took from me, it-it did what i hoped it would do.
anya: oh.
scene direction: anya getting it
anya: you dosed her.
giles: yes.
anya: you knew she'd going to take your powers all along.
giles: the gift i was given by the coven was the true essence of magic. willow's magic came from a ... place of rage and power.
anya: and vengeance. don't forget vengeance.
giles: oh. how could i? in any case, the magic she took from me tapped into ... the spark of humanity she had left. helped her to feel again. gave xander the opportunity to ... reach her.
anya: xander?
giles: yes. it was he who got to her in time.
scene direction: giles smiling
giles: he saved us all.
scene direction: anya gazes at giles, absorbing this, slowly starting to smile.
scene change: cut to the cave. buffy walks forward slowly, looking around. dawn follows.
dawn: i ... i think it's over, buffy.
scene direction: dawn buffy sitting down on a coffin
dawn: the world's still here.
scene direction: dawn gives a deep sigh of relief, then looks over at buffy again.
scene direction: buffy bursts into tears, not looking at dawn.
scene direction: dawn scowls.
scene direction: dawn sarcastic
dawn: sorry to disappoint y- she pauses, looks at buffy again. buffy continues sobbing.
dawn: wait, is ... is that happy crying?
scene direction: buffy sniffles
buffy: yes, dummy.
scene direction: buffy looks at dawn
buffy: you think i wanted the world to end?
dawn: i don't know.
scene direction: dawn uncertainly
dawn: didn't you?
scene direction: buffy stops crying, looks at dawn in dismay.
buffy: dawn ... i'm so sorry.
scene direction: buffy gets up and hugs dawn, begins crying again.
scene direction: buffy crying
buffy: i'm sorry.
scene direction: dawn hugs buffy, rubs her back.
dawn: it's okay, buffy. it's okay.
buffy: no. it hasn't been. it hasn't been okay.
scene direction: buffy pulls back to look dawn in the face.
buffy: but it's gonna be, though. i see it.
dawn: see what?
buffy: you.
scene direction: dawn looks touched.
buffy: things have really sucked lately, but it's all gonna change. and i wanna be there when it does.
scene direction: buffy starting to cry again
buffy: i want to see my friends happy again. and i want to see you grow up. the woman you're gonna become. because she's gonna be beautiful.
scene direction: now dawn gets a little teary as well.
buffy: and she's going to be powerful.
scene direction: buffy turns around, back toward the coffin.
buffy: i got it so wrong. i don't want to protect you from the world. i want to show it to you.
scene direction: she turns back to dawn again.
buffy: there's so much that i want to show you.
scene direction: they hug again, smiling. cue slow music "the prayer of st. francis" by sarah mclachlan.
scene change: lord make me an instrument of your peace cut to a close shot of the grassy edge of the pit. a hand appears, then another, and buffy hauls herself up onto the grass, reaches back to pull dawn up behind her.
scene direction: where there is hatred, let me sow love; where there is injury, pardon...
scene direction: buffy and dawn climb fully out of the pit and kneel on the ground panting. dawn looks over at buffy. buffy looks around at the world, smiling.
scene direction: where there is doubt, faith...
scene change: fade to the bluff. xander still holding the crying willow.
scene direction: where there is despair, hope where there is darkness, light and where there is sadness, joy...
scene change: fade to the magic box. anya helps giles up and puts his arm around her shoulders to support him. they duck under the fallen pillar and walk toward the front door.
scene direction: o divine master grant that i may...
scene change: cut to the front grille of a truck.
scene direction: ...not so much seek to be consoled as to console...
scene direction: pan up to reveal the truck driver holding the wheel, glancing over at the passenger seat. he grins nastily.
scene direction: ...to be understood as to understand...
scene direction: pan across to reveal jonathan and andrew, looking nervously at the truck driver, and then trying to squeeze even farther away from him than they already are, pressing against the door.
scene direction: ...to be loved as to love...
scene change: fade to the cemetery. buffy walks forward, looking toward the rising sun, looking pleased.
scene direction: for it is in giving that we receive dawn walks forward to stand beside buffy.
scene change: fade to another part of the cemetery. dawn and buffy walk along, with their arms around each other. there's greenery and flowers and blooming trees all around.
scene direction: and it's in pardoning that we are pardoned and it's in dying that we are born...
scene change: fade to the cave in africa.
scene direction: ...to eternal life...
scene direction: pan across the darkness to reveal spike lying on his back on the ground, motionless.
scene direction: amen.
scene direction: the music fades and stops. a shadow moves across spike's face.
demon voice: you have endured the required trials.
spike: bloody right i have.
scene direction: slowly, painfully, spike rolls onto his side and pushes himself up onto his knees. his face is swollen and bruised, more bruising and injuries on his chest and arms.
spike: so you'll give me what i want. make me what i was. so buffy can get what she deserves.
scene direction: close on the demon's glowing green eyes.
demon: very well.
scene direction: spike watches the demon nervously.
demon: we will return...
scene direction: the demon's hand reaches out toward spike's chest.
demon: ...your soul.
scene direction: the hand touches his chest and it glows fiery yellow-orange. spike's eyes glow the same color. he throws back his head and screams.
scene direction: blackout.
executive producers: joss whedon and marti noxon 