scene direction: cut to 4 int. xander's apartment - night
scene direction: xander's showing his apartment to his new roommate, seeming somewhat peeved.
xander: you're gonna live in that small room over there. i know it looks like a closet, but it's a room now.
scene direction: xander buffy and dawn follow xander into the apartment
xander: you're not gonna touch my food. i take the first shower in the morning, and if i use up all the hot water,
scene direction: xander show spike standing at the doorway
xander: that's your tough noogies.
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: and i hate this plan.
scene direction: xander to spike
xander: are you keeping up, or do you need some kind of english-to-constantpaininmyass translation?
scene direction: buffy leans forward to remind xander
buffy: invitation.
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: is there something more emphatic than hate? can i revile the plan? fine.
scene direction: xander to spike
xander: i invite you in.
scene direction: xander spike enters
xander: nimrod.
scene direction: xander stands in front of his closet
spike: don't want your soddin' food anyway.
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: i just don't understand when his problems became your problems—more specifically mine.
buffy: the school basement is making him crazy. we can't just leave him there.
xander: why not? crazy-basement-guy is better than stalking-buffy-guy.
scene direction: spike looks down, ashamed.
dawn: it's true. you guys aren't... you're not starting up again with the whole—
buffy: no. a thousand gallons of no. ok, it's just—things are different now—he has a soul.
xander: i'm sure that'll be a real comfort when he soulfully attacks you again.
dawn: yeah, what does that mean exactly—that spike is all soul-having?
buffy: i don't know, but he's been through a lot, ok, and nobody's attacking—
scene direction: spike walks forward and touches buffy's arm. she's startled.
spike: buffy— sorry.
buffy: no, it's me. i-i just—
spike: i'll go. this can't work.
buffy: it will. i-it already is. ok, you know, you've been out of the basement for half an hour, and you've already stopped talking to invisible people.
spike: bollocks.
buffy: ok, so there was that one episode in the car, but—
spike: no, bollocks to the whole thing. i don't need your mollycoddling.
buffy: it's not coddling. now go to your closet.
scene direction: she leaves and dawn follows. spike sighs.
scene direction: cut to 5 ext. football field at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: football players are practicing while buffy and dawn talk on the bleachers. it's a pretty, sunny day.
dawn: so, what is it?
buffy: what's what?
dawn: last night, you said you weren't helping spike out of pity. what is it?
buffy: it's a good question.
scene direction: buffy sips her drink through a straw
dawn: is sitting there drinking soda some kind of a zen non-answer?
scene direction: buffy puts sunglasses on top of her head
buffy: no, i just... i don't know what i'm feeling. i think i can't stand him, but sometimes...
dawn: you love him?
buffy: no. i—i feel for him.
dawn: feel what, exactly?
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: dawn...
dawn: no, i'm—i'm just trying to understand. i mean, none of it makes sense. first you say spike disgusts you, but secretly you two are doing it like bunnies. and then spike says he'd die for you, but he tries to rape you.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: for the record, spike knew how wrong it was. that's why he went away.
dawn: but to get a soul? like that would make him a better man? xander had a soul when he stood anya up at the altar. and now he says he still wants her? i just don't think it's the school basement that's making people crazy.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i should really get back. you comin' with?
scene direction: buffy gathers her things
dawn: i just don't see why people bother. i mean, you put all this energy into chasing and having and brooding and— i just don't understand these relationships where you all do insane things.
buffy: bye, rant girl.
scene direction: buffy walks away
dawn: well, you could, like, paint a beautiful mural on every ugly wall in the world, and then you could paint a beautiful mural on every ugly mural in the wor—
scene direction: dawn spots the quarterback, a tall, slender, athletic blonde teenager, putting on his letterman jacket after practice. the theme song from "a summer place" plays in the background. she's mesmerized as he drinks from a squirt bottle and then douses his face with water from the bottle and walks off. she's watching him so intently, that she leans after him as he leaves, causing her to lose balance and fall off the bleachers.
scene change: fade to black.
scene direction: opening credits and title sequence.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: cut to 6 int. anya's apartment - day
scene direction: buffy's using her battleaxe to fight a demon in anya's apartment. the place is completely trashed. anya's on the floor in the corner, crawling.
anya: maybe i'm not even the right anyanka. ever think about that? there's tons of anyanka's out there. maybe one of them pissed off this, uh— what did you say his name was? d'hoffryneffer...
scene direction: buffy and the demon continue to fight until buffy finally hurls the battleaxe at him, and it lands in his chest, killing him.
buffy: good thing i stopped by and heard screaming.
scene direction: buffy helps anya up
buffy: so, i guess d'hoffryn decided to take you out after all?
anya: yeah. he's, uh, not head of vengeance for nothing.
scene direction: anya gets ice tray from the freezer
anya: well, thank you for the generous life-saving. now please go away.
scene direction: anya takes ice and dishtowel into the other room, picks up a knocked-over chair
anya: look, i don't need anyone's help. or, ok, clearly i do,
scene direction: anya sits in chair
anya: but i don't want to need anyone's help, so stop helping.
scene direction: anya starts making an ice pack with the ice and towel
buffy: i get it. after last week, you feel you need to be all renegade and broody. taking yourself out of the loop—
anya: i need to figure out who i am.
scene direction: anya puts ice pack on her leg
buffy: another, something bad is happening. i don't want my friends out there alone right now, ok?
anya: well, i-i guess you guys could use my help. willow's not very good with the practical strategizing—except when she's evil. and dawn—she's not really good for anything.
scene direction: cut to 7 int. hallway at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: dawn is pacing back and forth in front of the stairway, psyching herself up for something. around the corner, the quarterback she saw earlier is talking with some friends - another male football player and two female cheerleaders, one of whom is on crutches. they are all standing in a circle in front of the lockers.
cheerleader on crutches: you guys, i've been thinking about it, and i think i can still cheer. i mean, i could use a chair or we all could, like the laker girls.
cheerleader friend: oh, honey, you need to concentrate on getting better. don't worry. we'll find a replacement for you tomorrow.
cheerleader on crutches: i just feel like i let you down.
scene direction: dawn walks up to their circle
dawn: hey, r.j.
cheerleader friend: oh, dawn.
r.j.: hey, summers.
scene direction: dawn they don't let her in the circle
dawn: um, so i-i-i was wondering. you had mr. gurin for english back at your old school, right?
r.j.: we all did.
dawn: i have him this year
scene direction: dawn uneasy silence
dawn: what a drag.
r.j.: i actually kinda liked him.
dawn: right! right. no, no, i like him. it's just, you know, i meant drag in a good, fun way.
scene direction: jock friend ignoring dawn
jock friend: so, um, are the tryouts tomorrow? you're gonna make the new girls jump up and down a lot, right?
cheerleader friend: god, gross! a vending machine fell on cheryl and all you can think about is new cheerleaders?
scene direction: despite the fact that these people are actively ignoring her, dawn persists.
dawn: hey, um, so, you know, i heard someone saying yesterday that we're gonna go all the way to the championships this year. in football.
r.j.: yeah, we actually have a good shot, considering we're a new team.
jock friend: yeah, well if you can get us past highland, we've got a good shot.
r.j.: oh, like you could do better.
jock friend: we'll see.
r.j.: wait, you actually think coach'd start you at quarterback over me?
jock friend: i'm just saying...
scene direction: dawn impassioned
dawn: the quarterback is like the most important member of the team. he is like the rudder that guides the ship.
r.j.: right. could i give you a hand with that?
scene direction: r.j. gesturing to the book bag of the girl on crutches
cheerleader on crutches: would you really?
scene direction: cheerleader on crutches hands her bag to r.j.
scene direction: cheerleader friend catty
cheerleader friend: it's ok, she can do it herself.
r.j.: hey, we're all on the same team, all right?
scene direction: they all walk off without acknowledging dawn.
scene direction: dawn under her breath
dawn: yeah, you're all on the team.
scene direction: dawn calls after them
dawn: we'll talk later, guys. that's cool.
scene direction: cut to 8 int. basement at buffy's house - night
scene direction: dawn's going through boxes that are stored in the basement. finally, she finds what she's looking for after going through a half-dozen boxes.
scene direction: cut to 9 int. gymnasium at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: they're holding cheerleading tryouts in the gym. there are a dozen or so girls trying out, all dressed in workout clothes, except dawn, who's dressed in buffy's old cheerleading uniform.
scene direction: cheerleader wannabe #1 cheers
cheerleader wannabe #1: gooooo razorbacks!
scene direction: cheerleader wannabe #1 does a somersault
scene direction: r.j.'s friend, the same girl from the circle, is heading the cheerleader tryouts.
cheerleader friend: ok. awesome. thank you. up next, we have—dawn summers.
scene direction: cheerleader friend dawn walks to the open area
cheerleader friend: nice outfit.
scene direction: dawn cheering badly
dawn: razorbacks, razorbacks, we're gonna play, we got a secret weapon and his name is r.j. hear us cheer, hear us yell, listen what we say, razorbacks, razorbacks, go r.j.!
scene direction: dawn's cheering was abysmal. she tries to do a cartwheel at the end, but falls down on her butt. r.j. was there to watch the auditions, and seemed kind of embarrassed.
cheerleader friend: ok. thank you. very... spirited.
scene direction: cut to 10 int. upstairs at buffy's house - night
scene direction: buffy's standing at a door. dawn's obviously locked herself in the bathroom to hide from today's events. dawn's sobbing audibly behind the door.
buffy: come on, dawnie. come out. dawn, sweetheart, it's not that bad.
scene direction: dawn opens door
dawn: how would you even know? r.j.'s never gonna notice me now.
buffy: from what you said, i'm sure he already noticed you, i mean with the falling and the
scene direction: buffy dawn squeaks, closes door
buffy: spirit. spirit. they said you were spirited, right?
dawn: go away!
buffy: dawn...
scene direction: xander walks upstairs to find buffy.
xander: things are a lot better, i see.
buffy: i don't think tonight's gonna be good for videos, xand.
xander: right, with the wailing and the crying... still better than a cozy evening with spike. shall i order a pizza? don't teens in a snit like pizza?
scene direction: dawn opens door angrily
dawn: it is not a snit! i-i finally met him—they guy of my dreams, ok—and i blew it. r.j. hates me now.
scene direction: on the bathroom floor, buffy sees her cheerleading outfit, shredded.
buffy: dawn, what is that?
dawn: just the end of my life.
scene direction: dawn storms off to her room to cry more
scene direction: buffy collects her outfit.
xander: remember when she used to have a crush on me? i miss the much cuter "me" crush.
scene direction: cut to 11 int. dawn's room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: dawn is lying across her bed, listening to music. buffy comes into her room, carrying her shredded cheerleading outfit. xander follows.
buffy: you shredded my outfit.
dawn: i'll buy you a new one.
buffy: that's not the point. i don't want a new cheerleading outfit.
xander: now, now, let's not be hasty.
scene direction: xander buffy glares at him
xander: not the right time.
scene direction: buffy hands shredded outfit to xander and sits on bed beside dawn.
buffy: dawn, i'm sorry that you feel so bad. ok, but in the morning this won't seem so terrible. you don't even know this r.j. not really.
scene direction: dawn sits up in the bed
dawn: i do know him. i know his soul.
buffy: really? dawn, he wasn't even on your radar yesterday.
xander: it's the jacket. it's true. something about the big letter on the chest makes girls get all swoony and crushy. i saw it all the time in school. and you couldn't just pin any old felt letter to your coat and get play—
scene direction: xander catches himself
xander: not that i tried.
dawn: it isn't a crush. it's love. i love r.j.
buffy: again, since yesterday. dawn, it's awfully fast.
scene direction: dawn incensed
dawn: what? you're telling me i don't feel what i feel?
buffy: no, of course not. i believe that you think it's real. it seems real... to you.
dawn: you know what? maybe i don't want advice from the dysfunction queen. you have no idea how i feel. you have no idea what real love is. maybe if you did, you wouldn't make fun of me this way.
buffy: dawn, i'm not making fun of you.
dawn: just go. leave me alone.
scene direction: dawn flops back down on the bed
scene direction: cut to 12 int. hallway at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: the bell rings between classes. dawn happens to be in the hallway near r.j.'s locker when r.j.'s jock friend is talking to him.
jock friend: i talked with the coach.
r.j.: yeah? i told you man—all those fumbles in practice—he was gonna come down on you.
jock friend: i'm starting on saturday.
r.j.: great. who knew fumbling all the time was the key?
jock friend: it's just time to let someone else have a turn, man. and you knew this was coming.
r.j.: yeah. sure.
scene direction: r.j. turns to his locker
scene direction: the jock walks down the hall toward the stairs, and dawn follows him.
dawn: you can't do this to r.j.
jock friend: oh, hey, it's you. nice cheering the other day.
scene direction: jock friend laughs
dawn: it isn't fair. he works so hard.
jock friend: what do you care? i mean, this is how the game is played. it's dog eat dog, may the best man win.
dawn: but nobody's better than r.j.
scene direction: jock friend laughs
jock friend: yeah, well, that's not really up to you, is it? hmm?
scene direction: dawn pushes him down the stairs without so much as a blink or a flinch.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: cut to 13 int. principal's office at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: dawn is sitting in the chair in front of principal wood, who's at his desk. buffy's leaning against a table near him. they are both staring at dawn.
dawn: it all happened so fast. i mean, one minute he was walking, and the next he stumbled, and then he fell.
principal: why would he say you pushed him down the stairs?
dawn: i don't know. maybe he was just embarrassed. it's hard being clumsy, especially when you're popular and athletic. i'd bet.
principal: yeah, well, to be candid, it wouldn't be the first time i caught o'donnell in a lie.
buffy: it'd be nice if his lies didn't involve my sister, though.
principal: anyway, i'm gonna have to call coach wheeler and, uh, tell him the bad news. not a conversation i really want to have.
dawn: at least you still got r.j. to take over.
scene direction: dawn buffy looks at her suspiciously
principal: yeah. well, i think we have everything we need for now. i'm sorry you had to get involved in this, dawn.
dawn: that's ok. i'm just really sorry it happened.
scene direction: dawn stands and leaves
scene direction: cut to 14 int. hallway at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: dawn's walking down the hall, and r.j. catches her attention.
r.j.: summers! hey.
dawn: hi.
scene direction: r.j. walking with dawn
r.j.: i heard wood hauled you into his office.
dawn: well, yeah.
r.j.: about o'donnell?
dawn: yes.
r.j.: that sucks, facing the whole inquisition thing.
dawn: yeah. "no one expects the spanish inquisition."
scene direction: dawn beat
dawn: god, it's like i have a disease or something. it was really no big deal.
scene direction: r.j. stops walking
r.j.: no.
scene direction: r.j. touches her shoulder
r.j.: it was. i think it's cool that you faced him. wood.
dawn: we just talked. he just wanted me to tell him about... the accident.
r.j.: yeah. it sucks when these things just happen—out of nowhere.
dawn: right. out of nowhere.
scene direction: r.j. continues walking, dawn follows
r.j.: you know, i was thinking of heading out tonight, after practice. you want to meet up?
dawn: uh... hmm...
scene direction: dawn smiles
scene direction: cut to 15 int. bronze nightclub - night
scene direction: "the breeders" are playing on the stage. lots of people are dancing. buffy, xander and willow are sitting at a table together, talking.
xander: well, spike definitely seems a little more cogent, less
scene direction: xander moves finger up and down on lip to make sound
xander: bl-bl-bl-bl-bl. i'm just saying... once you get back the soul, doesn't that mean you start, like, picking up your own wet towels off the floor?
willow: no, but maybe you start to feel really bad about leaving them there.
buffy: at least he's showering, and that's a refreshing and delightful change.
scene direction: xander gesturing to the dance floor with a nod of his head
xander: buff.
scene direction: buffy looks at r.j. dancing
buffy: i think that's the guy.
willow: what guy?
buffy: the one who, according to dawn, is the quote smartest, funniest, coolest, hottest, and having the thickest boy eyelashes boy in school unquote.
xander: he don't seem so tough.
willow: check out the fan club.
scene direction: there's a girl dancing with r.j. she's got long light brown slightly wavy hair, is slim, wearing tight hip-hugging blue jeans, and a tight, sheer blouse that's off one shoulder and bares the midriff. she's dancing with him very sexily, gyrating her hips and running her hands through her hair.
xander: daddy like.
buffy: what is that shirt made of? paint?
scene direction: willow eyes wide
willow: buff—
buffy: glad dawnie isn't here to see her precious boyfriend getting all thrusty with some slut-bag hussy—
scene direction: r.j.'s dancing partner turns around where buffy can see her face. it's dawn. buffy stares, slack-jawed, in disbelief.
buffy: oh.
xander: oh. oh! no! "daddy"— no, i wasn't— when i was looking, i wasn't— oh, god!
scene direction: willow leans to xander
willow: right there with ya.
scene direction: while dawn continues dirty dancing with r.j., buffy's still staring in disbelief, while xander looks like he's going to gag and willow seems ashamed of dawn's behavior.
scene direction: cut to 16 int. bronze nightclub - night
scene direction: later, still at the bronze, dawn's walking to the bar, but buffy catches her off guard.
buffy: so, do you have plans later, or are you just gonna go down to the docks and wait for the fleet to come in?
dawn: what?
scene direction: buffy pulls dawn aside by the arm
buffy: where do i start with the bad? first, you told me you were going to the library. second, you do not go out on a date without informing me first. third, anna nicole smith makes you look tacky.
scene direction: dawn crosses her arms
dawn: yeah, well i think i look hot, and so does r.j.
buffy: oh, i bet he does. maybe i should go have a little word with him.
scene direction: buffy starts to walk off
scene direction: dawn grabs buffy
dawn: no! don't you dare embarrass me in front of him.
buffy: i don't like this. this boy has you acting crazy.
dawn: it's my life. i'll do what i want to.
buffy: i don't think so.
dawn: oh. so, what—suddenly you're mom now?
buffy: no, i'm not. and i am glad she's not here to see you like this.
scene direction: buffy dawn stares
buffy: look, i'm sorry. i just—
dawn: you just can't handle it.
buffy: what?
dawn: you've always been the special one. hot little buffy with her boyfriends. the slayer. and now someone likes me, and you just can't stand that i'm getting the attention.
buffy: that is the farthest thing from true.
dawn: no it's not. and i'm sorry, but i like the way r.j. makes me feel, and if you think that makes me a slut or whatever, i don't care.
scene direction: dawn starts to walk away
scene direction: buffy blocks dawn
buffy: oh, no, no, no. you are not going back out on that dance floor.
scene direction: dawn grabs her coat and storms off.
scene direction: cut to 17 ext. alley outside the bronze nightclub - night
scene direction: dawn's walking away, still mad from her exchange with buffy. she hears something and slows down.
dawn: r.j.?: r.j.'s cheerleader friend steps out from the shadows.
cheerleader friend: i know what you're doing, slut. i saw you. i saw you with r.j.!
dawn: so? we were just dancing.
cheerleader friend: right? you think i'm stupid? you're gonna back off
scene direction: cheerleader friend points at dawn
cheerleader friend: now.
dawn: you know what's sad? a girl who can't move on when she's been dumped.
scene direction: cheerleader friend grabs dawn
cheerleader friend: he didn't dump me!
scene direction: the cheerleader picks a fight with dawn, pulling her hair and screaming. they fall to the ground. buffy breaks up the fight. the girls stand.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: ok, first with the lap dance, now with the cat fight. hey, you wanna get drunk and barf next?
scene direction: dawn to buffy
dawn: let go of me.
scene direction: dawn to cheerleader
dawn: this isn't finished.
cheerleader friend: i'll never let you have him, bitch.
scene direction: cheerleader friend kicks buffy in the shin, then runs off yelling
cheerleader friend: r.j. is mine. i mean it! stay away from him!
buffy: well, at least someone agrees you shouldn't be dating this guy.
scene direction: cut to 18 int. office at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: principal wood is talking to r.j. outside his office door, near buffy's cubicle. buffy's listening to the conversation. r.j.'s wearing a grey t-shirt, and holding his letterman jacket by the collar.
principal: how 'bout if you try doing your own homework for a change? no more getting these young, impressionable women to do it for you. avoid detention, r.j. sound good?
r.j.: whatever.
principal: oh, sweet infectious enthusiasm.
scene direction: principal wood walks back into his office, while r.j. starts to go back to class. buffy interrupts him.
buffy: whoa. hang on there, slappy. i'm not done with you yet.
r.j.: oh, man. like it's not bad enough i got that guy riding my back all the time. now i gotta deal with you, too?
buffy: actually, i'm a bit more formidable than mr. wood. you might come to look fondly on his back-riding.
r.j.: yeah, but come on—
buffy: sit.
scene direction: r.j. sits in chair in lobby area
r.j.: hey, i told him i was sorry about the homework.
buffy: mmm... not the homework, mr. wizard. the girls. what you're doing to them. in specific, my sister.
r.j.: hey, i didn't do anything to your sister. and you saw how hot she looked last night. i think that proved that she—
scene direction: buffy turns away, hands up, to avoid the conversation
buffy: aah! no more with the talky. look, i know how guys like you work. you turn on the charm, you get whatever you want, no matter who gets in your way, right?
scene direction: r.j. stands
r.j.: ok, look, it's not like that.
scene direction: r.j. starts putting on jacket
r.j.: i just—
scene direction: r.j. buffy pushes him back into the seat
r.j.: get along really well with girls.
buffy: oh, i see how you get along.
scene direction: buffy turns to pace while she rants
buffy: oh, look at me, i'm mr. quarterback.
scene direction: buffy while buffy's facing away, r.j. finishes putting on his jacket
buffy: i crush little girls and all their little feelings. all i have to do is—
scene direction: buffy turns, facing him now, and suddenly changes to a more pleasant tone
buffy: lead a team of high school athletes trying their best to do a good job. everyone depending on me. that is a lot of pressure. but it doesn't mean you get to disregard other people's feelings.
r.j.: it's not like i meant to hurt anyone.
buffy: i know.
scene direction: buffy sits on table beside r.j.
buffy: i know that. it's just— you're a leader, a captain, ok? people look up to you. you need to keep that in mind when you—
scene direction: buffy distracted by looking at his body
buffy: i bet you run a lot, huh? i mean, they work you pretty hard, don't they?
r.j.: yeah,
scene direction: r.j. stands
r.j.: i guess so.
buffy: i get that. i do. i'm there. or at least i was there when i was still in high school. which i was, just a couple of years ago, really. you know, i just realized
scene direction: buffy blushing
buffy: that i'm basically the same age as you. i'm not really older at all, actually. just like you,
scene direction: buffy making eyes at him
buffy: but with the sexual experience and stuff.
r.j.: i think i hear what you're saying.
scene direction: a colleague comes into the office lobby area. buffy stands and clears her throat, changing the tone of her conversation to seem more professional.
buffy: um, right, i'm—i'm really glad that w-we had this talk, so, uh, i think you'd better to get back to class.
r.j.: ok. thanks.
scene direction: as r.j. leaves the office, the theme song from "a summer place" starts to play and buffy watches longingly, grinning like a lovesick fool.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: cut to 19 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: dawn's coming home through the front door as quietly as she can, but buffy's sitting on the couch waiting for her.
buffy o.s.: dawn. you wanna come talk to me?
scene direction: dawn under her breath
dawn: ambush.
scene direction: dawn walks into living room, sits on couch by buffy
buffy: i wanted to tell you that i talked to r.j. today. he's ok. i think he likes you.
scene direction: dawn grinning, excited
dawn: really? tell me what he said about me—every word—including intonation and facial expressions.
buffy: well, he thinks you're-you're funny and-and pretty and interesting. didn't have a thing to say against you.
scene direction: buffy avoids eye contact
dawn: yes, he did. i can tell.
buffy: the tiniest thing.
scene direction: buffy tentatively
buffy: he might have said that you came on a little strong.
dawn: oh, my god! i'm the pushy queen of slut town.
buffy: no, honey, honey, not at all. no, no. it's just—you know, lay back a little. let him come to you.
dawn: i'm just scared that while i'm laying back, some other girl's gonna come and sweep him up.
buffy: but we have inside info. we know he doesn't like being swept. he likes to be the sweeper. dawn, you're gonna come out the winner here, with me looking out for you.
dawn: yeah, i guess so. thank you.
scene direction: dawn leans on buffy's shoulder
scene direction: cut to 20 int. classroom at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: r.j.'s in math class, being lectured on algebra.
teacher: so we do know that 6 x + y = 16, so we can solve for y in terms of iso—
scene direction: buffy bounces into the room, wearing a black satin shirt and a short skirt.
buffy: sorry to interrupt, but we need to see r.j. brooks down in the guidance office.
scene direction: cut to 21 int. classroom at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: in a different classroom that's not being used, r.j. looks around while buffy closes the door behind them.
r.j.: there's no one here.
buffy: yeah, there is.
scene direction: buffy points to him
buffy: there's one of you,
scene direction: buffy points to herself
buffy: and there's one of me.
scene direction: buffy walks up to him, touching his back
buffy: you were the one in math class. tell me what that adds up to.
scene direction: buffy walks to nearby desks
scene direction: cut to 22 int. hallway at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: dawn's walking down the hallway past r.j.'s math class.
dawn: i'm not coming on too strong if i just look at him.
scene direction: she peeks in the window on the door to his class, but his desk is empty.
scene direction: cut to 23 int. classroom at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: resume conversation between buffy and r.j. in the empty classroom.
buffy: i've always been fascinated by football. so, what's it like to lead a team?
r.j.: the thing of it is: the time. nobody gets how much time goes into it, with practices and games.
buffy: i totally get it. i was kinda juggling some stuff when i was in high school, too—which was also very recent. principal snyder was always on me.
r.j.: i still say wood's the worst. you haven't seen the way that guy rides me. i wish somebody'd get him off my back.
buffy: yeah, that would be cool.
r.j.: and sometimes, i didn't even do anything wrong—
scene direction: buffy grabs him by the collar and kisses him passionately. they kiss for a moment, then he pulls back.
r.j.: you're like a teacher.
buffy: not really.
scene direction: buffy sweetly
buffy: but, i mean, does it bother you?
r.j.: not so much.
scene direction: they kiss again and lean back on the desks.
scene direction: cut to 24 int. hallway at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: dawn's found her way to the hallway in front of r.j.'s math class again. classes are out, and r.j.'s still hasn't come back to class to get his books. she's distressed, and starts casually looking around for him. she peers into nearby classrooms until she comes to the empty classroom. when she looks in, she's completely forlorn. she runs out of the school.
scene direction: cut to 25 ext. courtyard at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: dawn's run out of the building, and sits down outside on the edge of a large planter. she starts to cry when she looks down and sees xander's work boots standing there. xander seems concerned, and sits down beside her.
xander: dawn? what's wrong? is this— did that guy in the jacket—
scene direction: dawn crying
dawn: uh! i don't even want to hear his name anymore!
xander: i just called him "that guy in the jacket".
dawn: that's what i used to call him in my head before i knew his real name!
xander: dawnie, honey, you seem extremely perturbed. maybe i should go get buffy—
dawn: no! i don't ever want to see her again.
xander: i thought that was about that guy in the— um, that guy with the thing.
dawn: no, it's about both of them.
scene direction: dawn cries again
scene direction: cut to 26 int. classroom at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: xander bursts into the empty classroom that buffy and r.j. are in. he starts talking before he realizes what's going on.
xander: buffy, i think dawn needs y— uuh!
scene direction: buffy is straddling r.j.'s hips while he's lying on top of a desk. her blouse is pulled half off, baring her shoulders. r.j.'s still fully clothed and wearing his jacket. they don't get up when xander walks in.
buffy: xander, hi. this is r.j.
r.j.: hey, guy. it's called knocking.
scene direction: xander to r.j.
xander: i'm sorry. it's just checkout time was an hour ago. we were hoping to make up the bed. also, it's a classroom, you chowder-head!
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: now get off the boy, buffy. we're going home.
scene direction: cut to 27 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: dawn's sitting on the couch, crying while buffy tries to comfort her.
buffy: dawn, please stop crying. please? crying isn't going to make his love for me go away, you know.
scene direction: pan out to show xander, anya, and willow are standing there, staring at buffy and dawn.
xander: listen, you're under a love spell. that's what this has to be.
scene direction: buffy to xander
buffy: you're right. he's right
scene direction: buffy to dawn
buffy: you're under a spell. oh, poor little dawnie.
willow: but we're working on it. it'll be better soon.
anya: yes. soon neither one of you will be in love with this boy.
buffy: he's not a boy.
dawn: what do you know about our love? it's true and real. this isn't magic. this is my heart.
anya: fine.
xander: we'll be working.
willow: look, i know this feels terrible, but it isn't real. try to hold onto that.
buffy: did you hear that? it isn't real. you're just crazy.
dawn: it is so real! i love him. you knew how i felt—like i finally found something, and you betrayed me.
buffy: i betrayed you? you're the one that constructed this elaborate fantasy about you and my lover.
scene direction: dawn stands
dawn: your lover? you're lover!
scene direction: dawn buffy stands
scene direction: willow mediating
willow: guys— guys—
buffy: i tried to get you to back away.
dawn: that's right! you lied to me!
buffy: did you want me to tell you that he's in love with me? that your little crush is hopeless?
scene direction: dawn crying
dawn: it's not a crush! stop. you're not supposed to do this.
buffy: why? because he's younger than me? you know, i'm extremely youthful. and peppy.
dawn: no, because you were the one i trusted.
scene direction: dawn runs to her room and slams door
buffy: dawn, wait!
scene direction: buffy buffy goes after her
scene direction: cut to 28 int. dining room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: xander, anya and willow are sitting around the dining room table doing research. the table is covered in books and papers, and willow's using her laptop.
anya: crazy little lust puppies, aren't they?
xander: well, at least the yelling went away. it was starting to sound like christmas morning with my family.
willow: love spells. people forget how dangerous they can be.
xander: hey, been there...
scene direction: xander flashes back to episode 2x16 "bewitched, bothered, and bewildered," where lots of girls are coming after xander in buffy's basement. cordelia's there, not under the spell, but every other woman he knows is under the spell, including buffy, willow, and even joyce, buffy's mom. they're all reaching for him, putting their hands on him, completely crazy for him. xander's remembering all this fondly, with a satisfied grin on his face
xander: good times.
willow: here. something.
scene direction: willow turns laptop to show others
scene direction: buffy walks into the room.
buffy: she's locked her door. that spell has her good and loopy.
willow: info on one r.j. brooks.
buffy: oh, lemme see. is there a picture?
xander: family stuff. hey, i knew his brother. he was a big jock at sunnydale high too. couple years ahead of us. he used to stick chewing gum in my hair.
scene direction: xander willow looks horrified
xander: huh.
willow: what're you thinking?
xander: well, i think my relationship with r.j.'s brother was complex at best, but...maybe he's a way in.
scene direction: buffy to willow
buffy: now, look for a picture.
scene direction: cut to 29 ext. neighborhood street - night
scene direction: standing in front of someone's house, xander's talking to spike, who seems a bit uncomfortable.
xander: i'm just saying, we're—we're tangling with a powerful spell here.
scene direction: xander they walk up to the house
xander: we don't know what the deal is so—so keep an eye out if this guy looks twitchy. and don't let this guy charm you, either. he had everyone around him practically kissing his ring back in high school.
scene direction: they're standing on the front porch now, ringing the doorbell. an angel decorates the door jamb, and spike avoids its glare. a tall, ungroomed, unathletic guy answers the door in a pizza delivery uniform. xander and spike both stare at him in disbelief.
brother: yeah?
scene direction: cut to 30 int. brook's home - night
scene direction: the brother is sitting slouched in an overstuffed chair. xander and spike are sitting across from him on the couch. the room's lovingly decorated with pale ivory colors, soft lighting and lace, and there are knick-knacks everywhere. each guy is drinking a bottle of beer.
brother: construction, huh? that's awesome.
xander: yeah.
brother: so, what's up with r.j.? how's he doing at the old alpha mater?
xander: good. it's just—
scene direction: xander spike stands and starts walking around the room
xander: i know a girl that might be going out with him and i was wondering—
brother: god, and you want to know if he's a good guy. truth is, he's the best. following in my footsteps. you might not know it now, looking at me with a couple of extra pounds, but back then, i was quite the guy.
scene direction: spike's standing at the back of the room now, near a curio cabinet full of statuettes.
xander: yeah, i gather that r.j. is pretty popular, too.
brother: i gotta tell ya. there was a time i was worried about r.j. he was into comic books, model u.n., geek stuff—no offense, harris.
scene direction: while the brother's talking, spike's inspecting the figurines on the curio cabinet. they're all angels. dozens and dozens of angels. he starts turning them around, where they're not facing him anymore.
brother: one time, i found all this poetry under his bed. turns out, he wrote it. then he, uh—what do you call it? blossomed. that's what it was like.
scene direction: spike's still walking around the room, looking at things.
xander: and do you have any idea why he, you know, burst into a flower all of a sudd—?
scene direction: standing in front of the mantle, spike's looking at the pictures that adorn it.
spike: you're wearing your brother's jacket. here, in this picture.
brother: oh, no, dude. he's wearing mine. that jacket was with me all the way through high school. gave it to him when i graduated, right before i started over at the pizza barn. i'm in the management program.
xander: so, lance, where did you get the jacket?
lance: oh, dad gave it to me. made a big deal about it, too. how he met mom wearing that jacket. she was a former miss arkansas. very hot in her day.
scene direction: xander stands
xander: wow, that's wonderful. boy, it's getting late.
lance: hey, you guys don't have to take off if you don't want too. i got sort of a rumpus room set up in the basement. there's air hockey and a mini fridge. we could party.
mrs. brooks o.s.: lance? do you have guests down there? there's little boxes or raisins if you want snacks.
xander: we really gotta go.
scene direction: cut to 31 int. dining room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: willow and anya are still working.
scene direction: willow sighs
willow: damn love spell. i have tried every anti-love spell spell i could find.
anya: even if you find the right one, the guy would probably just do an anti-anti-love spell spell... spell.
willow: what?
scene direction: willow doorbell rings, she stands
willow: i'll get it.
scene direction: willow goes to door
willow: maybe it's xander with some answers from the brother.
scene direction: willow opens the door, and it's r.j. standing there, wearing his jacket.
willow: oh, you have to be—
r.j.: i was looking for buffy. miss summers.
willow: buffy's not here. go away!
r.j.: are you sure?
scene direction: anya walks up to the door, stands beside willow
anya: no buffy for you. leave quickly now.
r.j.: uh-huh. ok. tell her to call me.
willow: man...
anya: good thing buffy and dawn are upstairs. if they knew he was here...
scene direction: as r.j. walks away, the theme song to "a summer place" starts to play in the background. anya and willow stare at him intently, watching him walk away. clearly, they're getting excited by this sight.
scene direction: cut to 32 int. foyer at buffy's house - night
scene direction: willow and anya are having a spat.
willow: but you don't even know him!
anya: yes, i do. i looked into him and saw his soul.
willow: he was walking away, so unless his soul was in his ass—
anya: a.j. is my best friend and my dearest darling—
willow: it's r.j. and what you were picking up on was his deep caring and devotion to me.
scene direction: buffy and dawn walk downstairs and see willow and anya arguing.
dawn: what's going on?
anya: willow thinks she's in love with my boyfriend, r.j.
dawn: what? no! you two can't do this.
buffy: willow, you're a gay woman—and he isn't.
willow: this isn't about his physical presence. it's about his heart.
anya: his physical presence has a penis!
willow: i can work around it!
dawn: this isn't fair! how can you all be doing this to me?
buffy: ok, wait. everyone wait. just calm down, ok? i-i think i know what this is. clearly, you've both been affected by the same love spell that got dawn.
scene direction: buffy willow and anya roll their eyes
dawn: uh! this isn't a spell. he owns my heart.
buffy: dawn, be quiet. we're trying to work this out. we don't need you interfering.
willow: there's a simple answer to this. just think about who loves him the most. clearly i do, since i'm willing to look past the whole orientation thing.
dawn: i need him.
anya: well, you're gonna have to do better than that—i'd kill for him.
scene direction: willow scoffs
willow: you'd kill for a chocolate bar.
buffy: no. yes! kill for him. i'm the slayer. slayer means kill. oh, i'll kill the principal.
anya: ooh, that is hard to top.
willow: yeah, well i have skills. i can prove my love with magic.
anya: yeah, right. what're you gonna do—use magic to make him into a girl?
scene direction: anya willow's eyes widen
anya: damn.
scene direction: willow goes upstairs, anya goes out the front door, buffy goes to the living room, and dawn stands still leaning against the wall.
anya: ooh, i know what he'll like.
scene direction: buffy turns around to get her jacket from the foyer and stops to talk to dawn.
buffy: sorry, dawnie. you're never gonna get him.
dawn: no. never.
scene direction: cut to 33 int. willow's room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: willow's sitting on the floor, lighting candles. looks like she's preparing for a spell. her scene is shrunk to a fourth of the screen size and placed in the top left corner of the screen. cheezy "charlie's angels" type music is played.
scene direction: cut to 34 ext. parking lot at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: cheezy music is still playing. buffy is driving (poorly) an suv through the parking lot. she parks the car. her scene is shrunk to a fourth of the screen size and placed in the top right corner of the screen, beside willow's.
scene direction: cut to 35 ext. sunnydale securities bank - night
scene direction: cheezy music is still playing. anya's dressed in all black, like a burglar, carrying a sack. she pulls the ski mask down over her face. her scene is shrunk to a fourth of the screen size and placed in the bottom left corner of the screen, beneath willow's. three scenes are on the screen now. in buffy's scene, she's getting a bazooka out of the car.
scene direction: cut to 36 ext. sunnydale train yard - night
scene direction: cheezy music is still playing. dawn's walking beside railroad tracks. she lies across them and waits. her scene is shrunk to a fourth of the screen size and placed in the bottom right corner of the screen, beneath buffy's. four scenes are on the screen now.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: cut to 37 int. willow's room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: willow's in the middle of the spell now. she's got four white candles lit, and a bowl of crystals in front of her. as she says the spell, the crystals glow, come out of the bowl and swirl around in front of her.
willow: oh, hecate, i call on you. i humbly ask your will be done. hear my request, a simple change, create a daughter from a s—
scene direction: xander puts his hand over her mouth, interrupting the spell. the crystals stop glowing and drop out of the air. spike's standing in the door.
willow: oh, man! now i've gotta start all over. hecate hates that.
scene direction: xander takes the bowl of crystals away from willow
xander: what the hell are you doing?
scene direction: willow stands
willow: proving i love r.j. the most!
xander: will, honey... r.j.'s a guy.
willow: i did notice that, yeah. 's why i'm doing my spell, 'cause, you know, he doesn't have to be.
scene direction: willow reaches
willow: now, hand me back my crystals. i don't have much time.
scene direction: xander holds the crystals out of her reach
xander: much time before what?
willow: before buffy and anya and dawn have a chance to prove that they love r.j. the most.
xander: and how are they gonna do that, exactly?
willow: well, buffy's gonna kill principal wood, any—
xander: fine, ok, let's start there.
scene direction: cut to 38 int. principal's office at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: principal wood is working at his desk, facing away from the window. he's listening to soft jazz music on his bose stereo. through the open levelor blinds, buffy can be seen walking up with her bazooka. she aims it at the principal, but a growling spike tackles her before she shoots, and they fall to the ground. spike tries to walk away, but buffy tackles him, and again they fall to the ground. spike runs away with the bazooka, and buffy runs after him. principal wood looks out the window, but they're gone already.
scene direction: cut to 39 ext. lawn at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: spike's running away with the bazooka, and buffy's chasing him. spike stops when he gets to xander and willow. buffy stares at willow, who's sitting on the ground doing magic.
buffy: hey! what are you guys doing?
willow: locator spell. human variety. almost done.
scene direction: buffy antsy
buffy: well, i've got a principal to kill. what's going on? who are we looking for?
scene direction: cut to 40 ext. sunnydale train yard - night
scene direction: dawn's lying across the tracks. there's the sound of an approaching train. xander pulls up in his sedan. xander drove with willow as passenger, and buffy and spike in the back seat. the car stops and they all get out.
buffy: you realize that anya's probably seducing r.j. even as we speak.
willow: my god. you think so?
buffy: well, i wouldn't put it past her. she's recently evil, you know.
willow: well, so am i. why should i miss out?
xander: hey, crazy chicks—look.
scene direction: xander points to dawn
buffy: dawn? dawn!
scene direction: buffy runs toward dawn
willow: buffy!
scene direction: a train is in the train yard now. buffy's running alongside of it, in the same direction as buffy's running. another train is coming into the yard in the opposite direction. it's on the track dawn's on. buffy jumps onto the train beside her and climbs up to the top of the train car. dawn can tell the train is close to running her over, so she turns her head away, clinches her eyes shut and waits. buffy jumps off the train, landing near dawn. she stands up and grabs dawn, pulling her off the tracks just in time, as the train rolls down the tracks where she was only moments before. buffy and dawn stand.
buffy: what were you doing? i mean, what is this?
dawn: it doesn't matter.
buffy: this is the plan? you're gonna steal r.j. by being trisected?!
dawn: what am i—gonna compete with you? you're older and hotter and have sex that's rough and kill people. i don't have any of that stuff. but if i did this then his whole life he'd know there was someone that loved him so much they'd give up their life.
buffy: dawn...
dawn: and it would be true forever.
buffy: no guy is worth your life—not ever.
dawn: r.j. is. and don't say he isn't. look what you were willing to do.
buffy: dawn, i would give him to you in a second if i could.
scene direction: buffy crying
buffy: that's how much you're scaring me.
dawn: but i—i thought you wanted him... for you.
buffy: nah. well, yeah. my god, that boy is hot. sorry. i think i might be under a spell here.
dawn: i hear ya.
scene direction: cut to 41 ext. street in sunnydale - night
scene direction: xander and spike are stealthily walking beside the display window for an electronics store. they're sneaking up on r.j., who's walking down the street with the cheerleader on crutches.
xander: now, you're sure you understand the plan?
spike: i think i got it, yeah.
scene direction: xander and spike run out into the street. xander tackles r.j. while spike takes the jacket off of him. they run away with the jacket.
scene direction: cut to 42 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: r.j.'s letterman jacket is burning in the fireplace. there's music playing on the radio.
xander: that, my friends, is the smell of sweet, sweet, victory.
anya: also, burning cotton-poly blend.
buffy: xander, be honest. you didn't, you know, think about slipping that jacket on just a little bit?
xander: i refuse to answer that on the grounds that it didn't fit.
anya: man, this tool gets his jacket from his brother, who got it from their father, and we'll never know where he got it. that bites.
xander: yeah, welcome to the hellmouth, where even outerwear isn't safe.
willow: i can't believe i almost—
buffy: i can't believe i almost—
anya: it was a spell. you were helpless. we're not responsible for anything we did morally or, you know, legally...
xander: true. you fell for a mystical, ancient curse. who hasn't made that mistake seven, eight times?
scene direction: buffy goes to sit by dawn on the couch.
buffy: you hear that? not your fault.
scene direction: dawn sighs
dawn: i'm just so... the way i acted, the way i talked to you. i feel so stupid. all over a spell.
buffy: get ready to feel even stupider when it's not.
willow: hey, anya, you never told us what you can't believe you almost.
scene direction: anya playing dumb
anya: almost who, now?
willow: no, you can't be the only not embarrassed one. what did you do?
scene direction: anya stutters
anya: i, uh, wrote a poem. an epic poem... comparing him to a daisy and a tower and a lake.
scene direction: radio announcer o.s.:  music stops and announcer speaks
radio announcer o.s.: : and now the latest on sunnydale's late-night bandit who is still at large. a masked thief held up a number of large businesses—
scene direction: anya turns off radio
anya: ok, great, ice cream. my treat.
scene direction: closing credits.