scene direction: cut to 10 ext. sunnydale bus station - night
scene direction: a charter bus opens its doors, and a couple of people walk down the steps to exit the vehicle.
bus driver: sunnydale. watch your step. next stop...
scene direction: the last person to exit is a young african-american girl, wearing denim overalls and carrying a backpack. she looks around and walks forward between parked buses to the bus terminal building. the sign overhead reads "overland charters". the girl looks at the building, but the doors are closed and no lights are on.
scene direction: she looks around anxiously, and goes to the nearby pay phone, grabs the phone book, and start flipping through it. the page she's searching reads "sunnydale" along the side, and "s soter-sullivan" across the top. the girl runs her finger down through the names, searching, before she realizes that the page she needs has been torn out of the book. when she looks up from the book, she sees a black-robed, hooded, eyeless man approaching her. she drops the phone book and turns to run, but sees two more of these men, the bringers, coming toward her with knives in their hands. she backs up against the wall, panicked and breathing heavily, and sinks down to the ground.
scene direction: just then, the pair of bringers between the buses are lifted off the ground and go flying apart, revealing buffy, who had thrown them to the ground. the third bringer runs away while the two buffy attacked come back for more. one lunges at her with his knife, but buffy grabs his hand and stabs the other bringer with the knife he's holding. the stabbed bringer doubles over in pain, and buffy kicks him to the ground. buffy continues to wrestle with the other bringer, ultimately breaking his neck. buffy then sees the one who started running away, and calls out to him.
scene direction: buffy yells
buffy: hey!
scene direction: buffy bends to pick up a bringer's knife at her feet
buffy: try picking on someone my own size.
scene direction: buffy hurls the knife at the fleeing bringer, landing it in his back, stabbing him through the heart.
bringer: ow! uh!
scene direction: bringer falls to the ground
scene direction: buffy walks up to rona, who is still cowering on the ground.
buffy: rona, right?
scene direction: buffy rona nods
buffy: i just got word you were arriving.
scene direction: buffy offers rona a hand to help her up
scene direction: rona takes buffy's hand, stands
rona: you're her!
buffy: her is me.
scene direction: rona still out of breath, looking around the parking lot
rona: you know, i thought, uh—they told me i'd be safe here.
buffy: right. well, you are. i mean, you will be...safer...with me around.
rona: that's good.
scene direction: buffy starts to walk away
buffy: next time you're attacked—
scene direction: rona follows buffy, panicked
rona: whoa, whoa—next time? you saying i'm gonna get attacked again?
buffy: welcome to the hellmouth.
scene change: fade to black.
scene direction: opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: cut to 11 int. willow's bedroom at buffy's house - daybreak
scene direction: pan from window to the bedroom floor, where willow's tossing and turning in a sleeping bag.
kennedy o.s.: you don't have to do this.
scene direction: pan up to show kennedy is lying on the foot of the bed, with one arm bent at the elbow, propping her head up on her hand, talking to willow.
kennedy: flooring it. in the bag. 'cause
scene direction: kennedy pats the bed behind her
kennedy: nice big comfy bed right here. i mean, you ought to know. your bed.
scene direction: willow wide eyed and stiff, lying on her back
willow: yeah, but no. i'm ok. i just, i like it down here.
scene direction: willow pats the sleeping bag
willow: it's firm.
scene direction: kennedy chuckles
kennedy: funny, you look a little uncomfortable. or... is it just me?
willow: no. i'm just, uh, uneasy 'cause buffy's out.
kennedy: right. how many girls arriving this time?
willow: just one. but since giles has the coven searching for other slayers-in-waiting to send 'em our way, i bet we'll be seeing a lot more soon enough.
scene direction: kennedy moves the arm that was propping her head, flips her long brown hair, and snuggles her face into her pillow, still looking at willow
kennedy: so, you're saying i should enjoy having this bed all to myself as long as i can?
willow: it is starting to get crowded around here.
scene direction: kennedy props her head on her hand again
kennedy: totally. and with this many girls, well, i'm just saying if we don't get another bathroom in this house soon, things are gonna get ugly.
willow: sounds like somebody had to share mirror time with a bunch of siblings.
kennedy: somebody not me. i only got a half-sister and we didn't have to share. her bedroom was in another wing of the house.
scene direction: willow staring
willow: wing? your house had wings?
kennedy: yeah. just a couple. a few. our summer home in the hamptons didn't have any at all. well, one, actually.
willow: huh. well, that's—that's ... huh.
kennedy: but never mind my deal. what's your story, willow, i mean, witchcraft? wow, that sounds new-agey.
willow: no, it's safe to say that what i practice is definitely old-agey.
scene direction: kennedy nods
kennedy: so, show me a trick.
willow: a trick?
kennedy: you know, pull a rabbit out of something, or make something float.
willow: uh, yeah, listen, kennedy, um, it's almost morning. we really need to get some sleep.
kennedy: hey, if i wanted to sleep, i'd be downstairs catching z's with the other girls.
scene direction: cut to 12 int. living room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: molly's sitting on a chair, talking to three slayers-in-training, who are all lined up on the floor in front of her lying in sleeping bags on their bellies, heads propped up on their elbows, looking intently at her. there's a brunette hispanic girl, a blonde girl with a southern accent, and a tall, skinny red-head girl.
molly: annabelle was all, "control your fear, control your fear." meanwhile, she's the one that goes scampering off, right into that turok-han vampire. poor annie.
eve: great, so the slayer who's supposed to protect us let her get killed?
molly: she didn't let her. annabelle was foolish. buffy can't be faulted by arriving too late.
scene direction: chloe sits up
chloe: it's not like she could've stopped it. i mean the super vampire messed her up pretty good.
scene direction: vi sits up
vi: no lie, she still looked like a big bruise when i got here, and that was already like the day after.
eve: and why isn't she back yet? buffy. she left to get the new girl over an hour ago.
scene direction: eve molly looks down contemplatively
eve: mabye she ran into trouble.
scene direction: eve the red-head slayer-in-training shrugs
eve: you don't think she was too late again.
molly: maybe—
scene direction: xander sleeping on a couch in the background
xander: maybe we can save the maybes for a more dayish part of the day, girls.
scene direction: xander turns on lamp
xander: potential slayers can function without sleep. me, i'm no good without my usual 90 minutes.
scene direction: andrew in the next room over, still tied to a chair, facing away from the group
andrew: i'm with him. keep the chatter down! or, speak up so i can hear you.
scene direction: andrew to himself
andrew: i'm bored. episode i bored.
scene direction: buffy walks in the front door with rona.
buffy: you guys are all still up?
scene direction: xander sits up, fakes a smile
xander: ah! who needs sleep?
buffy: everybody, this is rona.
scene direction: buffy gestures to rona
everyone: hi. hi, rona.
andrew: hey, rona.
scene direction: xander leans forward and smiles
xander: hey, rona.
scene direction: rona with her arms crossed, surveys the room, sees andrew
rona: um...
scene direction: rona to buffy
rona: why is that guy tied to a chair?
xander: the question you'll soon be asking is, "why isn't he gagged?"
scene direction: xander smirks
scene direction: anya enters the room with a rolled up sleeping bag, and giles follows her in.
giles: molly, why don't you show our new houseguest where the kitchen is. i'm sure she's hungry after her travels.
scene direction: molly holding a bag of potato chips, stands
molly: fair enough. i'm a bit peckish meself.
scene direction: molly exits
scene direction: rona to anya
rona: bit what as well?
anya: that's english for "hungry."
scene direction: anya unrolls the sleeping bag and arranges it on the floor
scene direction: rona follows molly, to herself
rona: oh, here i thought "hungry" was english for "hungry."
scene direction: giles to buffy
giles: everything all right?
scene direction: buffy helping anya make a bed for rona
buffy: she had a welcoming committee.
xander: so, the first knows potential slayers are making their way here?
scene direction: giles leans forward on the back of a chair
giles: i must warn the coven to be cautious.
buffy: the first's always gonna be one step ahead of us, giles. i need to know how to stop it. no, not stop it, hurt it. i want to hurt it real bad. tell me how.
giles: i—i don't know, buffy.
scene direction: giles takes off glasses, squats down to be on eye level with everyone in the room
giles: i've exhausted all the sources i have left with little result. the watcher's records are still really all we have to go on.
anya: i made the rounds myself. tried to dig up anything useful from the demon community.
xander: they're a community now? what's next, the ladies' auxiliary?
anya: the ones that didn't attack me, didn't know anything or didn't talk. either way, we've got squat.
buffy: well, squat's not gonna cut it. what about the turok-han?
xander: the vampire time forgot?
buffy: time may have forgotten him, but i sure won't. we know stakes don't kill it, but anything in those ancient books about what does? sunlight, fire, germs?
scene direction: andrew from the other room
andrew: so, giles, with that thing guarding the entrance to the first's crib, how will buffy get to spike?
scene direction: andrew giles's jaw drops, and he seems perplexed
buffy: i really hate to admit this, but he's not wrong. there's no way we'll be able to help spike until that thing is out of the way.
eve: spike? sorry, i'm confused. he's that vampire who's been killing people, right? he's the one you're worried about helping?
scene direction: buffy stammering
buffy: well, we need him to—he's the one that's been—it's complicated, chloe.
chloe: i'm chloe, she's eve.
eve: it's just, well, we've been talking, and do we have some kind of plan? you know, any kind of plan to keep us from dying?
scene direction: buffy stands, sighs
buffy: we're working on it.
scene direction: giles stands, walks to buffy
giles: there is one avenue that we haven't tried yet—
scene direction: anya stands
anya: giles!
giles: beljoxa's eye.
xander: and exactly what part of town is that avenue in?
scene direction: anya emphatically
anya: i told you no.
buffy: wh-what is botox's eye?
giles: beljoxa's eye. it's an oracle type creature that exists in a dark dimension.
anya: internal vortex more like.
buffy: fun.
anya: not really, no.
giles: the point is, only demons can open the gateway to it.
scene direction: anya to giles
anya: excuse me, ex-demon here.
giles: you're still friends in the fold. murderous acquaintances, anyway.
scene direction: anya to buffy
anya: look, there's no reason to think this beljoxa's eye will have any of the answers we're looking for.
buffy: i'll take anything i can get. anya, please, we're running out of time. spike's running out of time.
scene direction: cut to 13 int. underground cave - day
scene direction: spike, still beaten and scarred from his torture by the first, has his back to the rocky surface of the cave. from the close up shot, it looks as though he's lying on the ground with his hands on either side of his head. pan out and rotate the angle to show that he is indeed chained upright to the rocky cave wall, his wrists shackled.
scene direction: a bringer comes toward spike with a knife in hand. as the bringer lunges at spike with the knife, spike shifts his body weight from his feet to his hands, as he lifts his legs up and uses his feet to break the neck of the bringer. spike seems strong and energetic compared to when last he appeared. another bringer approaches him, wielding a fiery torch, and spike rips his hands free of his shackles, ducking the torch as the bringer swings it at him. spike kicks the bringer, knocking him out, then starts to run out of the cave. as he gets halfway through the passageway, he sees someone ahead, walking toward him. he considers going back, but pauses to see who it is. it's buffy—white-shirted, sweetly smiling buffy. spike smiles and leans forward—
scene direction: spike's head falls forward as a black-shirted buffy addresses him. he's still shackled to the cave wall.
scene direction: first [buffy] pacing in front of him
first [buffy]: dreaming of me again, aren't you? poor spike. he still thinks i believe in him. be realistic. i don't even believe in myself.
scene direction: first [buffy] stops pacing
first [buffy]: at least not enough to risk my skin to save your ass. not enough to face..
scene direction: first [buffy] turns to the turok-han
first [buffy]: that.
scene direction: first [buffy] turns back to spike
first [buffy]: i'm sorry, spike. but you need to accept this. you know it never would've worked out. you need to let go so we can both move on. i promise, soon it'll all be—
scene direction: buffy/first notices that spike's eyes are closed, and he's muttering to himself. she walks up to him, getting right in his face.
spike: she will come for me. she will come for me. she will come for me.
scene direction: buffy/first puts her hand up to spike's face, and traces it without touching him, smiling sweetly. then she stops, puts a finger in front of his lips, and stares him in the eye.
scene direction: buffy matter-of-factly
buffy: no, i won't.
scene direction: cut to 14 ext. alley behind a strip mall - day
scene direction: someone's emptying a garbage can into a dumpster.
anya: why not?
torg: you have the nerve to ask me that?
anya: come on, torg, that was like a lifetime ago.
scene direction: torg puts down the trash can he's holding to reveal his horribly disfigured demon face. he's built like a biker, with a large, muscular body, and long stringy hair. but his hairline is unusual—a long zigzag pattern along the crown of his head. he's also got a barbed wire tattoo over his ear where there's no hair. his eyes are an odd color, and his face is red and creased like he's been scarred from fights, his ears are oversized and pointed. he's pierced everywhere—nose, brow, ears. plus, he's got a goatee and a few whiskers along his jaw line.
torg: three, but who's counting. you broke my heart, anyanka.
anya: don't be so dramatic, torg. you don't even have a heart.
scene direction: anya laughs
anya: six spleens, two stomachs, half a brain maybe, but no heart.
torg: don't mock this. the night we spent together was...important to me.
anya: it was one date. and it wasn't even a date.
scene direction: anya giles rolls his eyes
anya: we just happened to be invited to the same massacre, and—and you hit on me after i had a few...
torg: i remember, you wore pink.
anya: those were entrails.
giles: i'm sorry, perhaps we could skip the nostalgia—
scene direction: giles anya glares at him
giles: sorry, no, no, carry on.
anya: ok, torg, look, you open this tiny little gateway to the beljoxa's eye for me, and i'll— you and i will go—
scene direction: anya sighs
anya: i'll have sex with you again.
torg: ugh, please, you're human. the way you look now, i wouldn't touch you for all the kittens in korea.
anya: you're rejecting my offer of sexual bribery?
scene direction: anya to giles
anya: what am i, a leper in this town? i can't even give it away!
scene direction: torg grabs his garbage can and starts walking back inside
torg: come back when you are a leper.
scene direction: giles steps in front of torg
giles: um, perhaps this might change your mind. you help us, and the slayer won't kill your clientele and burn your establishment to the ground.
scene direction: torg glares at anya, then at giles. he puts his fist in front of giles's face, then pulls on a claw sticking out of the back of his hand until it makes a crunching sound. he squeezes his fist, then flings blood from his wounded hand toward the back of the alley. a moment later, a portal appears, glowing white.
scene direction: torg toward the portal
torg: ek'vola mok't beljoxa do'kar.
scene direction: torg to anya
torg: there's your stinking gateway, anyanka.
scene direction: torg picks up his garbage can
torg: don't let it hit you on the way out.
scene direction: torg walks back inside
scene direction: anya to giles
anya: it's the hair, right? not attractive?
scene direction: giles walks toward the portal
giles: come on.
scene direction: giles anya follows
anya: buckle up.
scene direction: giles and anya walk through the portal.
scene direction: cut to 15 int. beljoxa's eye dimension - day
scene direction: it's pitch black and windy as giles and anya walk through the portal.
scene direction: anya looking around
anya: god, i hate this place.
scene direction: giles looking around
giles: where's the beljoxa's eye?
beljoxa's eye: here.
scene direction: giles and anya walk toward the deep, echoing voice and discover a creature that's got many eyes covering its surface. it's shaped vaguely like a comet, or maybe a huge eyeball with the nerve endings streaming out behind it. the eyes covering it's pink body are of varied shapes, sizes, and colors. the round part of the creature is in a spherical metal cage suspended from the ceiling in by chains.
anya: ah! oh,
scene direction: anya waves
anya: hi.
scene direction: cut to 16 int. kitchen at buffy's house - day
scene direction: the telephone rings, and willow picks up the cordless handset an answers it.
willow: hello? no, giles isn't here right— yeah, this is willow. althenea, hi! how's the coven? oh, i miss you guys. still working out that pleiadian spirit conjuring? what? oh, ok, when?
scene direction: cut to 17 int. dining room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: xander is squatting next to andrew's chair, untying him.
andrew: ow! watch it! that's my joystick hand.
scene direction: xander rolls eyes
xander: i'm not gonna touch that one.
scene direction: buffy standing on the other side of andrew, with her arms crossed
buffy: ok, listen up, andrew. i don't exactly know what to do with you, except that we don't have time to babysit a hostage.
xander: especially a hostage that's gotten more than a little ripe.
scene direction: buffy makes a face, and steps back a few feet away from andrew
buffy: so, i'm here to tell you, if you try anything, try to run— did you ever see the movie misery?
andrew: six times. but the book was scarier than the movie 'cause instead of crushing his foot with a sledge hammer, kathy bates chops it off with—
scene direction: andrew stops rambling, sees buffy glaring at him, and swallows
andrew: i'll be good.
scene direction: willow comes in from the kitchen
willow: buffy—word from the underground. another potential arrived in town the day before yesterday. she's at the sun spot motel, near the highway.
xander: the day before yesterday? why are we just finding out about it now?
willow: bringers killed her watcher before he could tell anyone he sent her. if it wasn't for a particularly powerful seer in the coven, we wouldn't even know about it now.
buffy: ok, i mean,
scene direction: buffy looks out the window
buffy: there's still a couple of hours of daylight left. you guys should be safe here. i'll get her and bring her back.
scene direction: buffy turns to leave
xander: i'll go with you.
scene direction: xander follows buffy
scene direction: andrew stands
andrew: all right, retrieving a potential. let's do it!
scene direction: andrew buffy and xander turn to glare at him
andrew: or i could just go wash up.
scene direction: buffy and xander leave through the front door. dawn walks in from the kitchen.
scene direction: dawn to willow
dawn: where are they going?
willow: bring another newbie in from the cold.
dawn: another one?
willow: well, the more the better, i figure. we need all the help we can get.
dawn: help. sure that's cool, but—
willow: what?
dawn: i'm just not sure more scared slayer wannabes translates as help.
scene direction: cut to 18 int. basement at buffy's house - day
scene direction: the slayers-in-training that are staying at buffy's house are training in the basement. there's equipment there for them to use, and ample space for working out. the redheaded girl is stretching. molly is juggling stakes. kennedy is holding the punching bag for chloe. rona and eve are standing on the sidelines watching them.
scene direction: eve shrugs
eve: what—what are we all doing here?
kennedy: it's called training. didn't your watcher ever teach you the word?
rona: i never had a watcher. i only just found out what i was—or what i might be—after those crazy-ass monks came after me.
eve: i meant why are we all bothering? it's not like we can make a difference.
scene direction: eve kennedy rolls her eyes
molly: we've gotta try.
scene direction: molly juggling stakes
molly: we gotta keep our reflexes sharp.
scene direction: molly drops a stake
kennedy: we have to be ready. if something comes down—
chloe: no, something's already come down.
eve: she's right. and what are we supposed to do about it? i mean, i've never seen a real vampire in my whole life, much less slayed one.
vi: i've seen one.
scene direction: vi the girls turn to look at her
vi: well, my watcher once showed me a photograph of one.
scene direction: vi beat
vi: a blurry photograph.
scene direction: eve gestures toward her
eve: that's what i'm saying. not one of us is remotely prepared to be activated as a new chosen one.
scene direction: kennedy shrugs, confidently
kennedy: i feel pretty prepared.
rona: excuse the newness of me, but, uh, just so i understand, if a slayer dies—
eve: well, when the slayer dies. i mean, nobody lives forever, right?
rona: then one of us—
eve: get's activated. uh-huh.
molly: i prefer "called."
vi: i heard there's more than one.
kennedy: more than one what?
vi: slayer. there's another one—somewhere.
molly: that doesn't make any sense.
eve: like any of this does. no matter how many there are, one of us is gonna be the next slayer, with the weight of the world on her shoulders.
scene direction: chloe shakes her head
chloe: it won't be me. i mean, not now. i mean, i'm too young.
kennedy: doesn't work that way. in fact, the younger, the better. in fact, i'm starting to think it might be too late for me.
eve: never too late. it could be anyone. especially since there's so few of us left. they'll just run through each one of us, one after the other. kinda creepy, huh? all we do is wait around for each other to die.
scene direction: cut to 19 ext. sun spot motel - day
scene direction: buffy and xander walk up to room 25.
xander: you sure this is it?
buffy: the clerk said it's the only check-in they've had in a week. tourism must be down.
xander: right in the middle of apocalypse season.
scene direction: buffy knocks
buffy: hello.
scene direction: buffy knocks again
buffy: it's ok. we're friendly. and we have eyes.
scene direction: xander peers in through the window
xander: buffy—kick the door down.
scene direction: cut to 20 int. sun spot motel - day
scene direction: buffy kicks the door in and enters, followed by xander. she sees a girl lying on the floor, face down in a pool of blood. buffy kneels to touch her, and looks back up at xander.
buffy: she's cold. been dead for days.
xander: poor kid. she made it all the way to sunnydale just to get herself killed.
scene direction: xander buffy rolls the girl over
xander: if only we—
scene direction: buffy looks at the girl's face
buffy: eve.
xander: eve, who's in our house?
scene direction: buffy and xander stare at each other, wide-eyed and incredulous.
scene direction: cut to 21 int. basement at buffy's house - day
scene direction: all the girls are all sitting on the floor in a circle, with despondent looks on their faces.
eve: just my personal opinion, but i don't think the slayer can protect us from the first.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: cut to 22 int. living room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: dawn's standing at a desk, looking through notebooks. andrew is in the same room, standing and talking to her.
andrew: ok, here's another interesting thing: how come the slayer's always a girl?
dawn: i dunno. 'cause girls are cooler?
andrew: i think a guy slayer would be badass. like—like if there was this ninja, a guy slayer would be like,
scene direction: andrew holds up his hand in a karate pose and puts on a voice
andrew: "you may be silent, but this'll shut you up."
scene direction: andrew does a karate move
andrew: hiya.
dawn: buffy could stomp ninja ass.
scene direction: dawn walks to another desk
andrew: the silent warrior? ha ha—i think not. she can't even slay that special vampire.
scene direction: andrew dawn glares, andrew shrugs
andrew: everyone's saying.
dawn: well everyone should shut up. and you should stop pretending anybody here is your friend.
andrew: and also, why's she so about saving spike? he's a worse killer than me by... a way lot.
dawn: spike was being controlled by the first. and he has a soul now. besides, we need his help.
andrew: what about me? did it ever occur to anyone that i could be a lot more useful around here? i used to be an evil genius. hello?
scene direction: dawn walks up to him
dawn: and what was your genius thing?
andrew: well, um, raising demons mostly.
scene direction: andrew dawn cocks her head and smirks
andrew: ok, so, not for now, but also there was planning. there were, um, blueprints.
scene direction: andrew dawn glares
andrew: i can be in this, kicking it righteous. yeah. oh, oh, yeah.
scene direction: dawn glaring emotionless
dawn: buffy said if you talked enough, i'm allowed to kill you.
scene direction: andrew timidly
andrew: not even.
scene direction: dawn cocks her head to the side
dawn: even.
andrew: license to kill, huh?
scene direction: andrew nods
andrew: pretty cool. you know, timothy dalton never got his props 'cause he came in at the end of an old regime, but he had it goin' on. he went rogue with the broccolis. they were just treading water, stylistically.
scene direction: dawn shakes head
dawn: is there a language that you're speaking?
scene direction: andrew pouts and sits on the couch
andrew: i'm so alone.
dawn: then maybe you shouldn't've killed your only friend.
scene direction: dawn walks off
andrew: i hate that. you don't even know.
dawn: i don't plan to.
andrew: the slayer's not getting it done.
scene direction: andrew points to the ground
andrew: i have got my ear to the ground, and that's the word.
scene direction: andrew dawn walks off, he calls after her
andrew: do you wanna play "kevin bacon"?
scene direction: andrew pouts and leans back on the couch, propping his feet up on it
scene direction: buffy walks in the front door in a huff and looks around. willow and dawn are at the dining room table.
willow: buffy.
dawn: what is it?
scene direction: buffy looks at andrew, who's on her couch. she glares at him, and he sits up and wipes off the part of the couch his feet were on. buffy just rolls her eyes and goes into the next room. xander, willow, dawn, and andrew follow.
scene direction: cut to 23 int. basement at buffy's house - day
scene direction: buffy rushes down the stairs to the basement.
buffy: get away from them.
scene direction: kennedy looks up from reading a book
kennedy: who? get away from who?
scene direction: eve turns to look at buffy
eve: what's the problem, officer?
scene direction: buffy firmly, through gritted teeth
buffy: i said get away from them now.
dawn: buffy, what did eve do?
xander: that's not eve.
buffy: eve's dead.
scene direction: rona holds up her hands in confusion
rona: i don't—i don't understand.
scene direction: all the girls stand and back away from eve. eve stands and faces buffy.
eve: oops! one more down. oh, well, can't save 'em all, can ya, buffy?
scene direction: eve turns to face the slayers-in-training
eve: thanks for the slumber party, girls. it's been real fun the last couple of nights. i learned a whole lot—
buffy: shut up, and get out!
scene direction: eve turns to face buffy
eve: or you'll do what? i'll be sending a guest over to visit y'all later on tonight, after the sun goes down of course. try and make him feel welcome before he rips y'all to pieces. bye.
scene direction: eve disappears in a flash of light (like a television being turned off).
scene direction: andrew quickly
andrew: i need to go wash up again.
scene direction: andrew runs back up the stairs
scene direction: cut to 24 int. beljoxa's eye dimension - day
scene direction: beljoxa's eye is addressing giles and anya.
beljoxa's eye: it cannot be fought, it cannot be killed. the first evil has been and always will be. since before the universe was born, long after there is nothing else, it will go on.
giles: i refuse to believe that. there must be some way to destroy it.
beljoxa's eye: what, am i talking to myself here? there's no way.
anya: ok, we tried. let's go, giles.
scene direction: anya starts to walk away
giles: are you saying that the first will succeed in—in wiping out the line of slayers?
beljoxa's eye: the eye sees not the future, only the truth of the now and before.
anya: yes, we've all got that—it's called memory. can you help us out with something a little bit more demony?
giles: if the first has been around for all time, then why hasn't it attempted something like this before? why now?
beljoxa's eye: the opportunity has only recently presented itself.
giles: opportunity?
beljoxa's eye: the mystical forces surrounding the chosen line have become irrevocably altered, become unstable, vulnerable.
anya: something the first did?
beljoxa's eye: the first evil did not cause the disruption, only seized upon it to extinguish the lives of the chosen forever.
giles: then what has caused the disruption? what—what is responsible for letting this happen?
beljoxa's eye: the slayer.
scene direction: cut to 25 int. dining room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: the slayers-in-training are sitting around the dining room table. buffy's standing at the head of the table, and willow's sitting at the end opposite her.
vi: we should run.
kennedy: and go where, vi?
dawn: annabelle ran. look where it got her.
buffy: safer in than out.
molly: how can you say that? it was here, buffy, in the house, living with us for days.
chloe: and you didn't even know it.
xander: well, none of us knew it.
vi: it could still be here. it could be any one of us.
willow: no, the first can only take the form of dead people.
rona: yeah, well there'll be plenty more of those soon enough. we're dropping like flies here.
scene direction: all the girls start talking over one another.
buffy: hey!
scene direction: buffy the girls stop talking
buffy: look, i know you're all scared. you know what? i am too, but giles and anya will be back soon, and hopefully they will have the information that we need to stop the first. in the mean time, we need to stick together. ok, we're stronger that way. we cannot afford to fall apart now.
scene direction: andrew steps up to the table
andrew: she's right. where would the justice league have been if they hadn't put their differences aside to stop the imperium and his shape-shifting alien horde?
scene direction: andrew crosses his arms
scene direction: buffy sneers to andrew
buffy: don't help me.
xander: buff, the sun goes down, and ubervamp's on its way. so a plan'd be good right about now.
buffy: will, i'm sorry to ask, but—
willow: i know, we need a barrier.
buffy: a major one. something tells me this vampire doesn't need an invite to get into the house. can you do it?
willow: i'll try.
rona: try?
kennedy: you heard her.
xander: buff, are you sure about willow doing the hocus pocus again? i—i mean, last time she—
buffy: xander, we don't have a lot of choices.
chloe: and what if that doesn't work? what if that monster gets through?
buffy: then we'll deal.
rona: deal? fight, you mean. how are we supposed to do that?
vi: and with what?
scene direction: kennedy to the slayers-in-trianing
kennedy: with whatever it takes!
scene direction: kennedy looks at buffy
kennedy: right?
molly: buffy, you fought the turok-han, and it almost killed you.
chloe: and you're the real slayer.
rona: wh-what chance do we have?
molly: honestly, you staked that thing, and it didn't die.
dawn: no, but that doesn't—
vi: maybe it can't be killed.
scene direction: while the girls go on about this, buffy's just staring straight ahead with her arms crossed. willow's staring off into the distance, then looks at buffy.
dawn: that mean we shouldn't try?
rona: there's that word again.
kennedy: hey, it's a good word.
chloe: give up. can we do that? surrender, i mean, so it won't kill us.
scene direction: buffy walks into the kitchen. willow stands up to follow her, and walks past xander.
scene direction: xander jumps, stares at willow
xander: what?
scene direction: kennedy to xander
kennedy: i said trying is good.
xander: i just thought it beared repeating.
scene direction: xander leaves the room, follows buffy and willow into the kitchen
scene direction: cut to 26 int. kitchen at buffy's house - day
scene direction: buffy, willow and xander stand around looking at each other with stern and concerned faces while they listen to the girls bicker in the other room.
dawn o.s.: um, and exactly how many ubervamps were at the geneva convention?
kennedy o.s.: come on, we're all potential slayers. you know how to fight even if you don't know how you know it.
vi o.s.: fighting's one thing. winning's another.
chloe o.s.: i don't want to die.
scene direction: cut to 27 int. underground cave - dusk
scene direction: as the sun sets above ground, the first sets its plans into motion from the cave.
first [eve]: the time has come for all good children to say good night.
scene direction: first [eve] turns to the turok-han
first [eve]: take 'em all, except for her.
scene direction: first [eve] the turok-han leaves, then to spike
first [eve]: well, alone again.
scene direction: the first morphs form from eve to buffy.
first [buffy]: i just love having you all to myself.
scene direction: first [buffy] walks toward spike
scene direction: cut to 28 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: outside, bringers are encircling the house. dawn's peering out between the cracks of the boarded up window. molly and chloe are on the couch beside her, also looking out.
dawn: there's more of them now.
scene direction: xander walking into the room
xander: and two more out back.
molly: why aren't they doing anything, attacking?
buffy: they don't want in. they're here to make sure we don't get out.
scene direction: buffy turns to the other window, where rona, vi, and kennedy are looking outside
buffy: rona.
scene direction: buffy holds up a sword
scene direction: rona comes to buffy, takes the sword
rona: like this'll do any good. i mean, what's the point?
scene direction: kennedy points to the tip of rona's sword
kennedy: it's this end right here. just stick that in the bad guys. any more questions?
scene direction: kennedy goes to the weapons chest and takes out a crossbow
kennedy: this'll do me.
buffy: are you sure you know how to use it?
scene direction: kennedy practices loading and shooting the unloaded weapon
kennedy: since i was eight.
scene direction: kennedy buffy hands her a quiver of arrows
scene direction: andrew walks up to buffy
andrew: can i have something? come on, the turok-han's coming for me too, you know. i have a right to defend myself—
scene direction: andrew buffy raises her eyebrows
andrew: ...if you say so.
scene direction: buffy looks into the weapons chest and grabs a glass bottle of holy water and hands it to andrew. he takes it and holds it close to his chest like a treasure.
scene direction: cut to 29 int. hallway at buffy's house - night
scene direction: willow's alone in the hallway off of the foyer, floating a lit votive candle a couple of inches above her hand.
scene direction: willow softly
willow: facing my fear. i'm facing my fear. hear that, fear? i'm facing you.
scene direction: kennedy walks into the foyer and sees willow
kennedy: wow.
scene direction: kennedy breaks willow's concentration, causing the candle to drop into her hand
kennedy: you really can float stuff.
willow: just testing.
kennedy: oh, right. heard this voodoo once turned you into the big scary.
scene direction: kennedy willow blows out the candle
kennedy: big, scary willow—that's something i'd almost like to see—
willow: no, you wouldn't.
kennedy: i said "almost."
willow: i needed to make sure. last time i tried using magic, the first—it turned it around on me. got inside. i felt it just surging through me, every fiber of my being. pure, undiluted evil. i could taste it.
kennedy: how's evil taste?
scene direction: willow makes a face
willow: a little chalky.
scene direction: cut to 30 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: dawn's still watching out the window. willow and kennedy go back into the living room.
dawn: guys? something's happening.
scene direction: rona looks out and sees the turok-han approaching the house
rona: oh, my god!
buffy: here it comes.
scene direction: the turok-han walks toward buffy's front door, growling.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: cut to 31 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: everyone's in the living room, gathered around willow. the turok-han is beating on the door, trying to enter the house.
scene direction: willow concentrating
willow: caerimonia minerva, saepio, saepire, saepsi.
andrew: um, deflector shields—deflector shields up!
buffy: willow—
scene direction: the turok-han finally breaks the door down, and willow finishes the spell as her eyes go black.
willow: saepio impedimentum!
scene direction: a barrier goes up, keeping the turok-han at bay.
chloe: it's working.
vi: for the moment.
buffy: will—
scene direction: willow struggling
willow: it's—it's strong.
kennedy: it's hurting her.
buffy: hang on, willow.
willow: i don't know.
dawn: she can't hold it.
scene direction: rona panicking
rona: what do we do? what do we do?
buffy: run. everybody run.
scene direction: as the turok-han continues to try to penetrate the barrier, everyone runs out the back door of the house except for buffy and willow who stay to the very last possible moment.
scene direction: cut to 32 ext. back yard at buffy's house - night
scene direction: xander leads the gang outside, going after the bringers with battle axe in hand. kennedy uses her crossbow to take out a few of the bringers herself. hand-to-hand combat ensues as xander fights a bringer, but the bringer overpowers him and takes the battle-axe away from him. just as the bringer is about to slice and dice xander, buffy stabs the bringer from behind.
scene direction: finally the magical barrier inside the house falls, and the turok-han runs outside after them.
scene direction: buffy to xander
buffy: come on!
scene direction: buffy and xander run off after the others.
scene direction: cut to 33 ext. alley behind a strip mall - night
scene direction: anya and giles step back through the portal they created earlier and back into the alley where they opened it. both are windblown.
giles: are you all right?
scene direction: anya limping
anya: yeah, i just—i don't understand how buffy's death mucked up the whole slayer mojo. you know, it's not like she hasn't died before.
giles: it's not because she died. the beljoxa's eye was quite clear about that in its enigmatic way. it's because she lives. again. buffy's not responsible for that.
anya: oh. oh. willow and me and xander and tara. we're the ones who brought buffy back. we're—we're the reason the first is here, the reason those girls were murdered. no, it's our fault. the would would've been better off if buffy had just stayed dead.
scene direction: anya walks off
scene direction: cut to 34 ext. street in sunnydale - night
scene direction: the slayers-in-training, dawn, andrew, willow, xander and buffy are running up the street, away from buffy's house. they stop to talk.
scene direction: xander looks over his shoulder
xander: ok, no bringers following. i guess they'll save us for old snaggletooth.
willow: where is the turok-han?
buffy: right behind us. time to split up.
scene direction: molly panicked
molly: split up? we're splittin' up? is that wise?
buffy: willow, take everyone and find a safe location.
xander: i know a place.
dawn: what are you gonna do?
buffy: gonna try to slow the turok down. lead him away from you guys. get him to chase me.
dawn: buffy, you can't take that thing on yourself.
kennedy: i'll stay.
buffy: no!
scene direction: buffy takes the bottle of holy water from andrew
andrew: h-hey, i need that!
buffy: willow, xander, take everyone to a safe location. get 'em out of here. now!
scene direction: everyone but buffy and dawn follows willow.
scene direction: xander touches dawn's arm
xander: have to go, dawnie.
scene direction: dawn grudgingly goes with xander. buffy faces the turok-han, who is now on the street facing her as in a standoff. buffy takes a running leap towards it, kicking it in the chest. it doesn't even move, but buffy falls to the ground. as the turok-han comes closer to her, buffy takes the bottle of holy water out of her pocket. when the turok-han is within arms reach, buffy smashes the bottle in its face, causing it to roar and retreat. buffy stands, but it grabs her by the throat and shoves her into a car window, shattering it. the holy water burned the turok-han's face, but doesn't appear to have slowed it down any. buffy runs away, expecting the turok-han to give chase, which it does for a moment before stopping. buffy turns around to see if it's still behind her, but it's gone.
scene direction: cut to 35 ext. construction site - night
scene direction: xander is climbing down scaffolding, still carrying his battle-axe.
xander: come on, people, we gotta move.
scene direction: andrew also climbing down the scaffolding
andrew: i'm moving. climbing's not my thing. i got a inner ear condition.
xander: is falling your thing? 'cause if you don't pick up the pace, i'm gonna come up there and drop your ass.
andrew: way to keep up morale in a crisis.
scene direction: andrew jumps to the ground
andrew: no wonder buffy's the leader.
scene direction: everyone else is climbing down the scaffolding too.
scene direction: rona under her breath
rona: some leader.
chloe: this is crazy.
rona: you got that right.
scene direction: rona to xander
rona: what are we doing down here?
xander: quieter. faster.
scene direction: cut to 36 ext. construction site - night
scene direction: the crew is following xander around the site to a big open area.
molly: where are we?
xander: future site of the new public library, opening up may 2003. if i ever get back to work, that is.
rona: you call this a safe location?
vi: it's the middle of nothing.
willow: this'll do. ok everyone. spread out, take positions.
scene direction: willow everyone spreads out, except andrew
scene direction: andrew standing alone in the middle of the open area
andrew: um, what's my position?
willow: and don't make a sound.
rona: that's the plan? spread out? that thing is gonna kill buffy, and then it's gonna come after us. for all we know, it's killing her right now.
scene direction: kennedy staring at something
kennedy: or, it could just skip that part and come straight here.
scene direction: everyone turns to follow her gaze and sees the turok-han has found them, and he's growling.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: cut to 37 ext. construction site - night
scene direction: resume. the turok-han walks menacingly toward them. kennedy loads her crossbow and prepares to fight. the others walk up behind her.
scene direction: chloe staring at the turok-han
chloe: oh no no no no...
scene direction: suddenly, the flood lights come on, and everyone turns to look. buffy's standing there, arms crossed, on a ledge overlooking the open area.
dawn: buffy?
molly: what's she doing?
scene direction: kennedy aims her crossbow at the turok-han, but willow waves her off.
willow: just watch. it's show time.
scene direction: willow leads the group away from the open area. they climb the scaffolding and watch. andrew looks on eagerly, hanging on the outside of the bars.
scene direction: buffy to the turok-han
buffy: looks good, doesn't it? they're trapped in here. terrified. meat for the beast, and there's nothing they can do but wait.
scene direction: buffy forward somersaults down into the open area
buffy: that's all they've been doing for days.
scene direction: buffy walks toward the turok-han
buffy: waiting to be picked off. having nightmares about monsters that can't be killed. but i don't believe in that. i always find a way. i'm the thing that monsters have nightmares about. and right now, you and me are gonna show 'em why. it's time. welcome to thunderdome.
andrew: two men enter. one man leaves.
scene direction: the turok-han comes for buffy. she's able to hold her own against it for a moment, but soon she's being beaten back. the onlookers grimace as the turok-han deals harsh blows to buffy. still, she manages to get in an offensive move here and there, punching and kicking it between its own moves.
scene direction: dawn watching the fight, to willow
dawn: this—you planned this. letting the barrier fail, bringing us here, you and buffy.
scene direction: 37a int. dining room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: the slayers-in-training are sitting around the dining room table. buffy's standing at the head of the table, and willow's sitting at the other end of the table.
molly: honestly, you staked that thing, and it didn't die.
dawn: no, but that doesn't—
vi: maybe it can't be killed.
scene direction: while the girls go on about this, buffy's just staring straight ahead with her arms crossed.
scene direction: buffy v.o.:  in an echoy voice, without moving her lips
buffy v.o.: : willow, can you hear me?
scene direction: willow v.o.:  looks at buffy
willow v.o.: : yeah.
buffy v.o.: we're losing them. we can't let that happen. i have an idea. grab xander.
scene direction: buffy walks into the kitchen. willow stands up to follow her, and walks past xander.
willow v.o.: xander.
scene direction: xander jumps, stares at willow
xander: what?
scene direction: kennedy to xander
kennedy: i said...
xander: i just thought it beared repeating.
scene direction: xander leaves the room, follows buffy and willow into the kitchen
scene direction: 37b int. kitchen at buffy's house - day
scene direction: buffy, willow and xander stand around looking at each other with stern and concerned faces, communicating telepathically, while the girls bicker in the other room.
buffy v.o.: i gotta slay the neandervamp to get spike outta that cave, but i need those girls to see me do it.
willow v.o.: i get it, but this isn't the best venue for a smackdown.
kennedy o.s.: ...we can whine like little wusses, or we can get off our asses and fight...
xander v.o.: i know just the place.
scene direction: back at the construction site, buffy is still fighting the turok-han. it punches buffy to the ground, but she gets back up to fight more. it throws her about 20 feet away, and she lands on the scaffolds, knocking the crossbow out of kennedy's hands. buffy picks up the weapon and aims it at the turok-han and fires as it runs toward her, hitting it right in the heart. it only pauses for a moment, then comes at her again.
scene direction: buffy grabs a nearby pipe from the scaffolding and uses it as a staff. she then uses it to propel herself away from the fight, but the turok-han is right behind her. she grabs a pickaxe and swings it at the turok-han, but it ducks and pushes her into the wall of the construction office trailer. buffy falls to the ground, and the turok-han disarms her before throwing her back toward the center of the open area. it punches her again and again. she falls into a pile of cinder blocks, but picks one up to throw at the turok-han—but it crushes it before she can throw it. it punches her again, and kicks her under some scaffolding before throwing her a dozen feet into the air, through the scaffold platform. buffy manages to stay on the platform, and the turok-han scales the scaffolding to get to her. he grabs her by the throat, lifting her off the ground and choking her as she struggles against him.
rona: it's killing her.
molly: we have to do something.
willow: wait!
scene direction: buffy reaches down, grabs the arrow in the turok-han's chest, pulls it out, and jabs its eye. it roars and drops buffy. while it's dealing with its injury, buffy starts punching it, and kicks it to the ground, where it lands in a pile of cinder blocks and boards. weakly, it tries to punch her back, but she keeps punching and kicking it until finally she can bang its head into the metal scaffolding. buffy grabs some nearby barbed wire and slips it around the turok-han's throat. it falls to the ground, and buffy pulls on it hard enough to sever its head. the turok-han explodes in a cloud of dust in front of her.
buffy: see? dust. just like the rest of 'em. i don't know what's coming next, but i do know it's gonna be just like this. hard. painful. but in the end it's gonna be us. if we all do our parts, believe it, we'll be the ones left standing. here endeth the lesson.
scene direction: buffy walks away as the slayers-in-training watch her. kennedy smiles; the other girls look at each other. they all follow buffy out of the construction site. pan back to show eve/first standing on the scaffolding, scowling and glaring as she watches them leave.
scene direction: cut to 38 int. underground cave - night
scene direction: still shackled to the rocky cave wall, spike sees someone walking toward him.
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: a knife, now, is it?
scene direction: white-shirted, cut and bruised buffy is standing before him holding a bringer's knife in her hand.
scene direction: spike weakly
spike: what'll...what'll that...you—you can't hurt me. you're—you're just a bloody figment, you are. you're just...
scene direction: buffy approaches him slowly and cuts him loose of his tethers. he collapses forward and braces himself with his hand on her shoulder. when he touches her and realizes she's real, he smiles and squints, searching her face intently. she looks into his eyes, tapping an emotional connection between them.
spike: you. oh.
scene direction: he puts his arm over her shoulder, and she puts her arm around his waist. although spike is weak and limping, they walk out of the cave together.
scene direction: closing credits.