scene direction: cut to 12 int. buffy's living room - night
scene direction: someone's sweeping up broken glass from the floor. pan up to show it's xander. he stops and addresses the room. buffy's doing research at the dining room table, sitting next to willow who is using her laptop computer. anya and dawn are on the couch in the living room looking through books.
scene direction: xander exasperated
xander: it's a loop...like the mummy hand. i'm doomed to replace these windows for all eternity. you know, maybe we should just board these up until things are less hellmouthy.
scene direction: anya holds up a notebook she was reading
anya: nothing...and nothing.
scene direction: anya holds up two other books, one in each hand
anya: cliff notes to nothing. nothing abridged...
scene direction: willow looks up from her computer
willow: yeah, my search isn't turning anything up either.
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: are you sure this thing called itself the first?
buffy: pretty sure. it claimed to be the original evil, the one that came before anything else.
scene direction: anya looking up over her reading glasses
anya: please, how many times have i heard that line in my demon days? "i'm so rotten, they don't even have a word for it. i'm bad. baddy bad bad bad. does it make you horny?"
scene direction: anya everyone stares at her
anya: or terrified. whatever.
buffy: it wasn't a line. when i came up against this thing, i felt it. it was ancient and enormous. it nearly got angel to kill himself. and if we don't rescue spike soon, god only knows what the first'll get him to do.
scene direction: xander looks over at andrew, who's passed out, tied to a chair
xander: i wish sleeping ugly would come to. he's been out all night.
anya: yes, he was just starting to squeal when the spooky swat attacked. said the first was held up at the seal of...danzar something?
scene direction: dawn stands, walks to andrew
dawn: hmm. maybe he's just faking so he doesn't have to answer any more questions.
scene direction: dawn punches him in the face, stands back to observe
dawn: hm. or maybe he's in a fugue state
scene direction: dawn rears back to punch him again, but buffy interrupts
buffy: dawn.
dawn: what?
buffy: he'll come to when he comes to. keep reading. if we're gonna rescue spike, we need to figure out how to fight this thing.
scene direction: dawn pouts, goes back to the couch
dawn: anya gets to hit him.
willow: hey! here, the first!...bank of delaware. sorry.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: hand me the watchers' codex again.
scene direction: buffy someone hands her an old-looking book
joyce: can i get you anything else, baby?
scene direction: joyce buffy recognizes the voice and turns to look
joyce: how 'bout some tea?
scene direction: buffy searching her, shocked
buffy: mom?
scene direction: buffy sighs, closes eyes
buffy: you're not real.
scene direction: joyce bends to buffy's eye level
joyce: ok, is that, uh, slang, like you're not for real, or—?
scene direction: buffy looks her in the eyes
buffy: you're the first.
joyce: oh, baby, you're so tired, you're not making sense. maybe you should get some sleep.
buffy: no.
joyce: you can't win against this thing. not if you don't rest.
scene direction: buffy visibly shaken
buffy: stop. stop being like this. it's a lie.
joyce: i don't want to scare you, but i want you to take care.
scene direction: joyce slowly
joyce: you need to wake up.
buffy: what?
xander o.s.: you're dreaming. buff, wake up.
scene direction: buffy having fallen asleep at the dining room table, she wakes
buffy: hm? did you see it?
scene direction: buffy looks around
xander: there's nothing to see. you were just doing a little dream talking, that's all.
buffy: oh.
xander: you ok? what'd you see?
scene direction: buffy shakes head
buffy: nothing. it was nothing.
scene direction: cut to 13 int. underground cave - night
scene direction: in the background, chanting in latin can be heard. spike is being dragged, face up, along the dirt ground. his chest wounds have started to close, but the symbols cut into him remain clear on his chest. spike looks around, a little disoriented, and sees harbingers with torches and someone dragging him. it's the ubervamp dragging spike into a special room. the ubervamp stops, lets go of spike's leg, and stares at him. spike/first walks into the room.
first [spike]: go on. give it a kick then. you always liked that, didn't you?
scene direction: spike/first morphs into drusilla's form.
first [drusilla]: kick a dolly when he's down. that was always your style.
scene direction: drusilla/first kneels to watch ubervamp kick spike in the ribs so hard he rolls over. spike lifts his head to glare angrily at the ubervamp. the ubervamp hisses and growls at spike.
first [drusilla]: has buckets of energy, poor dear. he's been laying in wait for his moment since before the bug walked.
scene direction: first [drusilla] stands, walks to ubervamp
first [drusilla]: there, there, pet.
scene direction: first [drusilla] clicks tongue
first [drusilla]: soon as the moon comes, you'll have your carnage.
scene direction: first [drusilla] looks at spike
first [drusilla]: little girls tear so easily, like pink paper. 'til then, we'll have our way with this one. got it coming, he does.
scene direction: first [drusilla] hums
scene direction: the ubervamp goes back to spike, kicking him. spike screams.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: cut to 14 int. buffy's living room - day
scene direction: show andrew, still passed out and tied to a chair in the living room. someone splashes water in his face. he shudders a little, but doesn't regain consciousness. show dawn and anya standing there looking at him. anya's got a cup in her hand.
anya: that was something.
scene direction: dawn to anya
dawn: maybe if you threw hot water on him.
anya: good thinking.
scene direction: dawn and anya walk toward the kitchen, but buffy comes into the room, so they go sit on the couch instead.
anya: whoa, hey.
dawn: hi.
scene direction: dawn buffy stares at them, but they avoid eye contact
dawn: nothing.
buffy: what?
scene direction: dawn wringing hands
dawn: oh, um, i thought you were gonna ask us what we were doing.
buffy: no, was going to ask—
scene direction: dawn andrew coughs
dawn: oh! look who's awake.
scene direction: dawn stands and goes to andrew
scene direction: anya follows dawn
anya: silly andrew,
scene direction: anya slaps his chin gently
anya: you drooled all over yourself.
scene direction: andrew to buffy
andrew: i'm—i was about to be dead. you saved me.
scene direction: buffy steps up between dawn and anya
buffy: for the time being.
scene direction: buffy crosses arms
buffy: but if you don't tell us what we need to know, then i'm gonna offer you to the first on a platter and let him chop you into tiny pieces.
andrew: the first what?
anya: the name of the evil thing that pretended to be warren to get you to kill jonathan.
andrew: oh, not very ominous sounding.
dawn: no, i-it is if you understand the context.
andrew: no, an evil name should be like lex or voldemort or—
buffy: hey, i was intimidating here.
scene direction: buffy flanking buffy, dawn and anya turn and glare at andrew
andrew: oh, sorry. um, go ahead.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: forget it. where's the seal?
scene direction: cut to 15 int. basement at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: buffy, dawn and xander are following andrew through the school basement.
andrew: it's around this corner, i think.
buffy: you better be right this time.
andrew: i told you—i'm not sure.
scene direction: cut to 16 int. seal of danthazar room in basement at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: andrew leads buffy, dawn, and xander to the room where he killed jonathan.
xander: maybe you should get sure. i'm sick of all the runaround with you—
scene direction: xander sees the seal of danthazar
xander: whoa. check out the goat-heady badness.
buffy: what's it do?
andrew: i don't know. something not good. it didn't work 'cause... there wasn't enough blood.
scene direction: andrew turns to leave
andrew: ok.
scene direction: andrew buffy stops him
scene direction: dawn investigating the wheel they hung spike from last episode
dawn: there's blood on this. lots.
scene direction: dawn turns to buffy
dawn: looks like the first made another sacrifice. or a music video.
buffy: the seal could've been activated. i bet that's what the first needed spike for.
scene direction: andrew panics
andrew: that wasn't there before. i had nothing to do with that.
xander: thanks for clearing that up 'cause otherwise we might've thought you were up to no good here at the satanic manhole cover. you killed your best friend!
scene direction: andrew softly
andrew: he's in a place of joy and peace. he told me.
scene direction: andrew buffy rolls her eyes
xander: no, nobody told you. you got tricked by a fake ghost.
buffy: boys, can we save the encounter session? we need to cover this thing up.
scene direction: buffy grabs nearby shovels, hands them out
buffy: whatever it does, we can't leave it exposed like this.
scene direction: they start shoveling dirt over the seal.
scene direction: cut to 17 int. basement at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: after covering up the seal, xander and andrew walk out of the seal of danthazar room and into the hallway, followed by buffy and dawn.
andrew: man, this place gives me the creeps. it's like in wonder woman, issue 297/299—
xander: "catacombs"—yeah with the skeletons.
scene direction: andrew & xander simultaneously, smiling and nodding
andrew & xander: that was cool.
scene direction: xander suddenly frowns and pushes andrew
xander: move it. this way.
dawn: so what next? we found the seal, but no spike.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: i don't know. the first was camped underground last time i found him, but—
scene direction: principal wood passes them in the basement hallway, carrying a shovel, looking a little disheveled.
principal: buffy?
scene direction: buffy turns to face him
buffy: hey.
principal: hey. i—thought that you were, um—
dawn: sick? she was. oh, vomiting and oozing from various places and—
principal: yeah, i remember, so please don't go on.
dawn: oh, but now, it's amazing. the doctor gave her some cream.
scene direction: buffy overlapping with dawn
buffy: pills.
scene direction: buffy principal looks back and forth between them
buffy: and a cream. and i'm all better.
scene direction: buffy stares at the principal's shovel
principal: oh, yeah, um, apparently somebody left this in the courtyard, and i was just returning it.
buffy: that's some full-service principaling.
principal: i try.
scene direction: buffy looks at her own shovel
buffy: oh, i was down here helping dawn with a school project.
dawn: for science.
buffy: we buried a, um, uh, time capsule.
dawn: hello people of the future. kids of today like red bull and, uh, jackass.
scene direction: dawn laughs nervously
buffy: we better go.
scene direction: buffy buffy and dawn turn to leave
principal: buffy?
scene direction: principal buffy turns back to face him
principal: you know if you are feeling better, i could really use you back at work. i've been wait listing kids who really want to see you.
buffy: oh, uh, yeah. uh, i'm sorry, you know, i was just—i've been ill and stuff.
principal: no, no, it's fine, and i understand. it's just things are starting to back up.
buffy: well i-i-i'll be there tomorrow. no problem. 100% ooze free.
principal: good.
buffy: ok.: buffy and dawn walk away one direction and principal wood walks away in the other direction. buffy turns to look at him quizzically, then turns back. then principal wood turns to look at buffy, twirling his shovel as he walks away.
scene direction: cut to 18 int. dining room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: anya brings in a candle and sets it on the dining room table in front of willow. willow strikes a match to light the various candles in front of her. dawn's at the other end of the table using willow's laptop computer. buffy and xander are standing at the end of the room, near the foyer, watching the goings on.
scene direction: xander to buffy
xander: how's it going?
buffy: dawn's trying to find out anything she can about the seal of danzalthar. will's about to do a locator spell, see if we can find the first.
scene direction: buffy yawns
xander: why don't you go get some rest. you haven't slept for like two days. we'll call you if we find anything.
buffy: nah, i-i couldn't sleep. too much going on.
xander: it'll be ok, buff. we've faced this kind of stuff before.
scene direction: willow pours a sandy mixture on the table in front of her.
buffy: you didn't see the first. i did. i felt it. it was like—
scene direction: a magical explosion sends anya back against the wall in the corner. the bowl in front of willow glows red. dawn shrieks and jumps back from the table, crawling away to hide. the red light surrounds willow then enters her body through her nostrils. she throws her head back and a demonic apparition (huge, with two horns on its head and glowy red eyes) escapes her mouth, lunging toward buffy.
buffy: will!
scene direction: the demon goes back inside willow, and she stands, sending red lightning bolts from her mouth. the bolts are aimed at buffy, knocking her down and sending her across the floor on her back into the foyer.
scene direction: willow in a deep possessed voice
willow: you only make me stronger!
scene direction: xander grabs the glowing bowl from the spell, and throws it against the dining room wall, shattering it. the light disappears, and willow collapses, crying and twitching. xander goes to check on anya. buffy kneels at willow's side, holding her head.
buffy: will!
willow: it's still in me. i feel it!
buffy: no, it's not. it's gone. you're ok.
willow: i don't want to hurt anybody. please, buffy, don't let it make me. oh, god!
buffy: we won't. i promise, ok? i promise. we won't use magic to fight this thing until we know what we're doing.
willow: i can't. i can't. i'm sorry.
scene direction: cut to 19 int. living room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: willow's standing off to the side of the room. anya and dawn are sitting on the couch. buffy's got her coat on, ready to leave. xander's discussing the plan with her.
xander: at least let me come with you.
scene direction: buffy walks to foyer
buffy: i'm going alone.
xander: you said yourself, you don't know how to fight the first, or even where it is.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: it's out there. it's hurting my friends. i'll find it.
scene direction: buffy opens the front door to leave, but sees giles standing there on her front porch when she opens it.
giles: buffy.
buffy: giles.
scene direction: buffy goes to hug giles, but is cut off when three girls she's never met walk right into her house.
scene direction: girl #1 in a cockney british accent
girl #1: nice place. bit of a mess.
scene direction: girl #1 walks inside the house
scene direction: girl #2 walks by buffy and smiles, but says nothing.
scene direction: girl #3 looks at buffy
girl #3: this is a slayer?
scene direction: girl #3 looks away and sighs on her way inside the house
scene direction: buffy stares at the girls, then looks at giles, confused.
giles: sorry to barge in. we have a slight apocalypse.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: cut to 20 int. living room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: dawn's standing in front of the three girls giles brought with him. the three girls are lined up against the wall, and dawn's inspecting them, arms crossed in front of her.
dawn: they're all slayers?
giles: potential slayers. waiting for one to be called. there were many more like them all over the world, but, um, now there's just a handful, and they're all on their way to sunnydale.
buffy: the others were murdered.
scene direction: 20a ext. city street in istanbul, turkey - night
scene direction: a dark-haired girl is held down by two hooded figures, and a third figure raises an arched, shiny, silver dagger and thrusts down at her.
scene direction: 20b int. parking garage in frankfurt, germany - night
scene direction: a girl with hot pink hair with black bangs at her forehead, a nose ring, and a metal collar is trying to escape her pursuers. robed men close the door behind them and start to fight with her. she is knocked to the ground, lying on her back. finally, one of the robed people pulls out a curved silver dagger and stabs her.
giles: in cold blood. as well as their watchers. we always feared that this day would come, when there'd be an attack against not just an individual slayer, but against the whole line.
scene direction: 20c int. flat in england - day
scene direction: giles enters the flat, looking around. he sees robson lying injured on the floor and goes to his side.
scene direction: robson eyes flash open
robson: it's started.
buffy: the first. that's what it wants.
giles: yes, to erase all the slayers in training and their watchers along with their methods.
buffy: and then faith, and then me. and with all the potentials gone and no way of making another, it's the end. no more slayer. ever.
willow: but we haven't found any information on the first. no documentation—
scene direction: giles crosses arms
giles: that's because it predates any written history, and it rarely shows its true face. the only record i know was in the council library.
anya: what about the council? what do they say about this?
giles: gone.
scene direction: giles looks at buffy, who stares back in shock
willow: what?
giles: obliterated. they were in session, and, uh, there was an explosion.
willow: that means all the council's records are-are destroyed?
giles: annabelle.
scene direction: giles girl #2 unzips her book bag, takes two books and a stack of files from it and lays them on the coffee table in front of willow
giles: that's what's left.
scene direction: giles willow, anya, dawn and buffy each take some of the new material and peruse it
giles: the mystic secrets of the watchers. and whatever i could find on the first. when i learned what was happening, i-i, um, i stole them.
anya: and you blew the council up! see, this is what happens when you're all stuffy and repressed. you overreact.
giles: not—i didn't. must've been an agent of the first, after my little burglary session. the knowledge contained in these files had to be protected, and there wasn't time for-for bureaucracy or debate. the council knows no other way.
scene direction: andrew still tied to a chair, he lets out a melodramatic observation
andrew: and it cost them their lives!
scene direction: andrew everyone turns and stares, he sits back
andrew: go on.
scene direction: buffy to xander
buffy: can we gag him?
scene direction: buffy xander claps and goes to andrew, putting duct tape over his mouth
buffy: but what do these records say about the first?
giles: uh, very little. it can change form. uh, it only appears in the guise of someone who's passed away.
willow: our ghosts.
giles: also it's not corporeal. it can't touch or fight on it's own. it only works through those it manipulates. and its followers, the bringers.
girl #3: those freaks in the black robes.
girl #1: yeah, with the hoodies and the crazy alphabet eyes. i never saw 'em, i just heard—
annabelle: shh! molly, mr. giles doesn't need us prattling on.
scene direction: giles sits on arm of couch
giles: the first is unlike anything we've faced before. i mean, there's evil and then there's the thing that created evil, the source.
buffy: and that's what this thing claims to be?
giles: that's what it is. it has eternities to act, endless resources.
scene direction: giles stands
giles: how to defeat it—i-i—
scene direction: giles sighs
giles: honestly i don't know. but we have to find a way. if the slayer line is eliminated, then the hell mouth has no guardian. the balance is destroyed.
scene direction: giles walks up to buffy
giles: i'm afraid it falls to you, buffy. sorry. i mean, we'll do what we can, but you're the only one who has the strength to protect these girls—and the world—against what's coming.
xander: but no pressure.
scene direction: girl #3 walks to the center of the room, addressing everyone
girl #3: that's it? that's the plan? i don't see how one person, even a slayer, could protect us. i saw what those bringer guys can do. they tore apart my watcher.
giles: of course we'll use all our resources—
girl #3: and if this thing is the root of all evil, isn't the hell mouth it's number one vacation spot? i mean, don't you think we should be hiding our asses on the other side of the globe?
annabelle: kennedy!
buffy: no, she's not wrong. we need more muscle. that's why we need to find spike.
anya: yeah, he'll help. you know, if he's not crazy or off killing people or dead. or, you know, all of the above.
scene direction: cut to 21 int. underground cave - day
scene direction: spike's head is thrust underwater, and he struggles under the force of hands that are holding him down. pan out to show that it's the ubervamp holding spike's head in a pool of water in the cave. drusilla/first is pacing behind them, supervising. finally, spike stops struggling, and the ubervamp pulls spike's head out of the pool and throws him on the ground.
first [drusilla]: that's why our kind make such good dollies.
scene direction: lying face up on the ground, spike coughs out water. he looks away from drusilla/first.
first [drusilla]: hard to kill. tried to enlighten little buffy, didn't you? spilled, spilled, spilled our secrets like seed.
scene direction: first [drusilla] reaches down to touch her dress at thigh level, slowly starts pulling up her skirt
first [drusilla]: but you forgot, i say what you tell and what you know. i say when this is over.
scene direction: first [drusilla] lets go of her skirt and puts her hands behind her head
first [drusilla]: and i'm not done with you yet. not nearly.
scene direction: first [drusilla] clicks tongue
scene direction: on drusilla/first's command, the ubervamp picks up spike and heads for the pool, forcing his head underwater again.
scene direction: cut to 22 ext. sunnydale street - night
scene direction: zoom in on a holiday display in a storefront window. pan over to buffy and giles walking side by side down the street.
giles: this place you originally saw the first—you say it was in a christmas tree lot?
buffy: under it. there was a hidden cavern. just happened to be under a tree lot. the bringers were doing some kind of ritual.
scene direction: buffy looks at giles
buffy: giles, this is bad, isn't it? a new kind of bad.
giles: just in time for christmas.
scene direction: buffy sighs, looks around
buffy: you know, i didn't even realize it was december. maybe when we get home, we should decorate the rubble.
scene direction: buffy looks at giles
buffy: think you'll ever show up for a real visit? the kind where the world isn't about to end?
giles: if we survive this, i promise.
buffy: good. 'cause i miss you.
giles: i miss you too.
scene direction: cut to 23 int. living room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: andrew is still tied to the chair, talking to xander.
andrew: so, how long have you followed buffy?
xander: i don't follow her. she's my best friend.
andrew: huh. she seems like a good leader. her hair is shiny. does she make you stab things?
scene direction: willow, who's putting a pillow and blanket on the couch, is talking to kennedy. she grabs a stack of bed sheets and starts walking toward the staircase.
willow: ok, so annabelle can sleep down here, uh, molly can sleep in dawn's room—
kennedy: not if dawn actually wants to sleep. molly'll talk her ear off.
willow: ok, then molly down here, you with dawn, and annabelle in my room.
kennedy: bad idea. annabelle snores.
scene direction: willow hands sheets to kennedy
willow: you wanna do the sleeping arrangements?
scene direction: kennedy starts up the stairs
kennedy: ok.
scene direction: kennedy turns to face willow
kennedy: you, uh, better not hog the covers.
scene direction: kennedy smiles, turns to go upstairs
scene direction: willow eyes widen.
scene direction: dawn walks up to willow from the kitchen
dawn: does she want to eat?
willow: what? huh? oh, she's—oh, she's new.
scene direction: willow glances up the stairs after kennedy
scene direction: dawn walks back to the kitchen, willow follows
dawn: well, annabelle and molly are starved and i totally burnt the mac and cheese. oh, um, i'll put hot sauce on it, tell 'em it's an american thing, say it's blackened.
scene direction: cut to 24 int. kitchen at buffy's house - day
scene direction: anya is scraping the burnt mac and cheese out of the pot and into the garbage can.
anya: actually, it's not blackened so much as ruined.
willow: or we can order pizza.
scene direction: annabelle sitting at the island, reading a book
annabelle: as long as it's plain. i'm veggie.
scene direction: molly going through the cabinets, opening a box of cereal
molly: cracked, you mean.
annabelle: just because you'll eat any kind of trash—
scene direction: molly finds boxes of cookies on the counter
molly: brill! biscuits! you don't mind do you? i got a case of the nerves after mr. giles lecture.
scene direction: dawn opens a box of cookies
dawn: knock yourself out. i feel a cookie problem coming on, myself.
scene direction: dawn and annabelle get into one box of cookies, and willow and molly share another while anya mumbles in the background.
scene direction: cut to 25 ext. christmas tree sales lot - night
scene direction: buffy and giles walk into the empty christmas tree lot. lights are strung, but there are no trees there. the two of them are looking around.
giles: so the entrance to the cave was above ground here?
buffy: yeah, i'm pretty sure it was around here somewhere.
giles: well, we'll just keep—
scene direction: buffy o.s.:  crunch of breaking wood can be heard
buffy o.s.: : aah!
scene direction: buffy o.s.:  giles turns to look
buffy o.s.: : found it!
scene direction: buffy has fallen into a hole in the ground that was covered with wooden slats that apparently gave way. giles puts his glasses on and bends to look into the hole.
giles: good lord, are you all right?
scene direction: cut to 26 int. underground cave - night
scene direction: buffy has fallen into a cave and landed on top of some rubble. she stands and dusts herself off while talking to giles, who is still above ground.
buffy: peachy, except my knees bend backwards now. ok, giles, stay up there. i'm gonna check it out.
scene direction: buffy walks off further into the cave.
giles: right.
scene direction: giles stands and looks around the empty lot above ground
scene direction: buffy walks around among the various cave formations. she looks up, she looks down, and then something passes behind buffy, unseen by her. she turns to look, but no one is behind her. when she turns back, the ubervamp hisses in her face. buffy is startled, and the ubervamp takes that opportunity to punch her so hard she flies across the room, landing against the wall and falling to the ground. he kicks and punches her with such force that her blocks are mostly ineffective.
scene direction: she retreats, but he follows. finally she gets some good offensive moves in, but he's able to avoid or block more than half of them. he punches her again, sending her rolling into another room. she gets to her feet before the ubervamp can get to her and readies herself with a stake. when he finally comes close enough, she stakes him right through the heart. he looks at the stake, growls, looks at buffy, and takes out the stake. buffy's eyes grow wide as she stares in utter shock.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: cut to 27 int. underground cave - night
scene direction: resume. buffy's staring at the ubervamp.
scene direction: the ubervamp punches buffy and comes after her with her own stake. buffy avoids his attacks, but her back's literally against the wall. her eyes are still wide as she watches him come after her. he punches her in the stomach and throws her against the wall. she throws a punch at him, but he catches her fist in his palm and squeezes until it makes crunching sounds, then twists her arm, then pulls her body by the arm until he slams her head into a stalagmite, before finally grabbing her throat, squeezing, and lifting her off the ground. buffy winces and looks around desperately until she finds a stalactite. she breaks the stalactite off of the cave ceiling and bashes the ubervamp's head with it. he drops her and falls to the ground.
scene direction: while he's recovering, buffy makes a run for it. she climbs the cave walls toward the hole where she fell in. she's almost out, her hands are on the christmas tree lot ground, when the ubervamp grabs her heel. buffy struggles against him, trying to get out of the hole, but the ubervamp pulls her back in. there's nothing on the ground for her to grab on to to resist. she kicks the ubervamp in the head and tries again to crawl out of the hole. she barely gets out of the hole and looks up at giles, who is backlit by the rising sun, which he blocks. the ubervamp starts to crawl out of the hole, but sees the sunlight, and retreats back into it.
scene direction: cut to 28 int. kitchen at buffy's house - day
scene direction: buffy and giles walk into the kitchen through the back door, only to see the three slayers in training already up and eating breakfast.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: ..the others just yet. it'll give us a chance to—
scene direction: buffy sees the girls in the kitchen
scene direction: kennedy eating a bowl of cereal
kennedy: sorry about the british invasion.
scene direction: molly preparing toast and jelly
molly: we've been up for hours.
scene direction: annabelle drinking from a mug
annabelle: 4 p.m. london time.
kennedy: are you all right? you look...
scene direction: buffy shuts the door
buffy: oh. yeah, i'm ok. i just got into a fight is all.
scene direction: buffy to giles
buffy: you want to tell me with what?
scene direction: buffy takes off her coat
giles: yes, buffy, but don't you think we should, uh, discuss this privately?
buffy: you mean, not in front of the next generation? no time to coddle them, giles. welcome to the war room, guys.
scene direction: annabelle gets out a notepad to take notes.
giles: uh, what you fought was a vampire, but it was, um, something more than that. it was a turok-han. as neanderthals are to human beings, the turok-han are to vampires. primordial, ferociously powerful killing machines, as single-minded as animals. they are the vampires that vampires fear. an ancient and entirely different race and, until this morning, i thought they were a myth.
buffy: so, the first shows up, and now this? you think it's a coincidence?
giles: i think it's more likely that the turok-han is here as an agent of the first.
annabelle: um, did you slay it?
buffy: no, it's still out there, somewhere.
molly: what's it want?
buffy: all of us dead. but for now it looks like sunlight is keeping this ubervamp away.
giles: so, until sunset, i suggest you get some rest. a few hours sleep will do a world of difference.
buffy: no sleep today. can't.
giles: oh, come on, you're exhausted.
buffy: ah, it comes with the gig. somehow i don't think taking on prehistoric evil comes with nap time. sorry, potential guys. i know you came a long way, and you wanna get into it, but the best thing you can do right now is just sit tight, wait it out. i'm gonna go to work, see what i can find out. i'll be back before sunset.
giles: how do you plan to research something as ill-defined as the first?
buffy: i have the best plan ever.
scene direction: cut to 29 int. buffy's cubicle at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: buffy is sitting at her desk, talking on the phone, using her computer. beside her keyboard is a large gourmet coffee. she has a web browser up, and is using a search engine. in the search field, she has typed "evil".
scene direction: buffy to phone
buffy: yeah, well, i already re-checked the basement.
scene direction: buffy beat
buffy: wait, you know, hold on, i'm gonna try something.
scene direction: buffy types, sighs
buffy: maybe the first isn't ready for modern technology. displaying results 1 through 10 of 900,517. ok, i gotta narrow this down. i'll call you back? yeah.
scene direction: buffy buffy hangs up then types
scene direction: principal walks up to her cubicle wall without her noticing, reading from her computer screen
principal: manifestations of evil?
scene direction: principal buffy types more in the search field, principal reads what she's typing
principal: in... the... movies.
scene direction: principal to buffy
principal: you're searching for evil movies?
buffy: uh, i know it's not the all-time most kosher use of my office hours, um, but, you know, looking at some down time. and what can i say, i just love those evil, evil movies. like exorcist, you know, blair witch...
principal: hmm. as opposed to rob schneider's oeuvre.
buffy: different kind of evil.
principal: yeah.
scene direction: principal walks into her cubicle
principal: buffy, you know, i'm not that big a fan of scary movies, even the hokie ones. sometimes they go to a place that i think kids could stand to avoid.
scene direction: principal sits in the chair in front of her desk, crosses his arms and leans forward on her desk
buffy: well, it's not for the kids.
scene direction: principal looking her right in the eyes
principal: yeah, yeah, i'm only saying that once you see true evil, it can have some serious after burn, and then you can't unsee what you saw. ever. that's just one opinion. i better get back to work.
scene direction: principal stands and walks out of her cubicle
scene direction: buffy calls after him
buffy: what kind of movies do you like?
scene direction: principal pauses, answers without turning around
principal: oh, me? mysteries. i love finding out what's underneath it all at the very end.
scene direction: principal grins
scene direction: cut to 30 int. underground cave - day
scene direction: spike is propped up on a rock, looking beaten and haggard. one of his eyes is swollen shut. he lies there as drusilla/first stand in front of him talking.
first [drusilla]: think of it as a game. a fun, funny game. without all the rules, or any of the bothersome winning part. but still, there are sides. you have to choose a side, spike. then we can fly—be free and visit all our friends as they come squirming up from out the earth.
scene direction: first [drusilla] starts dancing
first [drusilla]: i know you like a good wriggle and a giggle and a squiggle.
spike: you're not drusilla.
scene direction: first [drusilla] giggles
first [drusilla]: no, i'm really not.
spike: she was crazier than you.
scene direction: first [drusilla] covers her ears with her hands
first [drusilla]: ooh, daddy. no kicking. it's almost christmas day today and you've gone spoiling it. i've been so very good all year.
scene direction: first [drusilla] growls playfully in spike's face
first [drusilla]: but i could be bad if you like.
scene direction: first [drusilla] spike looks away from her, but the ubervamp punches him in the head
first [drusilla]: bad daddy. needs a caning. never learned his headmaster's lesson while all the school bells ring
scene direction: first [drusilla] mimes ringing a bell
first [drusilla]: and ring and ring and ring and ring..
scene direction: first [drusilla] bends down to whisper in his ear
first [drusilla]: choose a side. choose our side. you know that it's delicious.
scene direction: first [drusilla] feigns licking his face, but doesn't actually
first [drusilla]: what do you say?
scene direction: spike whispers
spike: dru, luv...
first [drusilla]: hmm?
spike: get bent.
scene direction: first [drusilla] stands, pouts
first [drusilla]: stupid, stubborn daddy.
scene direction: drusilla/first holds her hands over her heart and walks away as the ubervamp starts pummeling spike again. drusilla/first swings her hips back and forth, watching spike get beaten, and mumbles to herself.
first [drusilla]: ringing, ringing, ringing...
scene direction: cut to 31 int. bathroom at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: the school bell rings. buffy is washing her face in the sink. she touches a sore spot on her face, then goes to inspect her arms as well. she unzips the arm of her blazer to reveal scrapes and bruises worse than we've ever seen on her.
buffy: ow. oh. ah.
scene direction: cut to 32 int. buffy's room at buffy's house- day
scene direction: suddenly, joyce's loving touch, and her concerned voice speaks.
joyce o.s.: buffy, what happened?
scene direction: buffy looks up, and finds herself in her house, talking to her mother
buffy: uh, oh, it's ok, mom.
joyce: i tried to warn you, but—right. the last thing you need now is one of helpful mom's guilt trips. i'll get you some ice.
buffy: no. mom, i-i can't.
joyce: buffy, you have to heal.
buffy: i don't have time.
joyce: are you worried about the sun going down? because there's some things you can't control. the sun always goes down, the sun always comes up.
buffy: everyone's counting on me.
joyce: well, they do that, and i'm sorry, buffy, but these-these friends of you put too much pressure on you. they always have.
buffy: something evil is coming.
joyce: buffy, evil isn't coming, it's already here. evil is always here. don't you know? it's everywhere.
buffy: and i have to stop it.
joyce: how are you gonna do that?
buffy: i-i don't know yet, but—
joyce: buffy, no matter what your friends expect of you, evil is a part of us. all of us. it's natural. and no one can stop that. no one can stop nature, not even—
scene direction: cut to 33 int. buffy's cubicle at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: the school bell rings, and buffy wakes up at her desk. there's a student sitting in the chair in front of her desk.
buffy: oh, um, i'm sorry. what were we talking about?
teen boy: only my life. you're just like all the others.
buffy: no. no, no, no. i'm different. i'm hip. i relate to the young people.
scene direction: buffy stands to leave
buffy: no, don't go, uh, uh...
teen boy: roger.
buffy: roger. see? i knew that!
scene direction: buffy roger leaves, buffy sighs and hangs her head in her hands
buffy: oh...
scene direction: principal wood is watching buffy through his office window.
scene direction: cut to 34 int. living room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: dawn and willow are getting weapons from the weapons chest. giles is pacing. xander is finishing up working on the living room window. the slayers in training are sitting on the couch.
giles: this day's almost over.
scene direction: giles looks at watch
giles: and the sun will go down in 17 minutes.
xander: hey, junior slayers, don't look so worried. i mean, sure, we don't know where spike is, or how to fight the first, or if and when the super style vampire is gonna attack us all. however, house
scene direction: xander taps hammer on boarded up windows
xander: boarded up. no all we gotta do is trap this ubervamp in a pantry, and it's game over.
willow: xander, newbies. let's ease them in to the whole "jokes in the face of death" thing.
xander: who's joking? that pantry thing could work. are you saying m. night shamalayan lied to us?
scene direction: buffy to slayers in training
buffy: you'll be ok.
scene direction: willow standing near buffy now, holding a mace, to slayers in training
willow: ok, or even better. it's like our guarantee.
scene direction: willow to buffy
willow: um, buffy, i just, i want you to know that i'm really sorry for letting you down. you know, here before with the magic going all aah and me going all eeee and everything getting all rrrr. i wish i could help out.
buffy: no one expects you to make everything right.
willow: so, i can't do everything, but i should at least be able to do something. i have so much power, but when i try to use it—
buffy: don't, ok?
willow: ok. but, you need help, buffy. i know you, and i know you'll never admit it, but you need help.
scene direction: buffy shrugs
buffy: i'll be ok. ok, or better. it's like my guarantee.
scene direction: kennedy stands, walks up to buffy and willow
kennedy: hey, are we getting weapons? trained fighters? patton is coming? i've heard worse ideas.
annabelle: we'll be armed when the slayer feels we're ready.
molly: i feel ready.
annabelle: you're frightened. you must learn to control your fear.
scene direction: kennedy turns to annabelle
kennedy: hey, you know what would help with that?
scene direction: kennedy turns to buffy
kennedy: weapons.
buffy: uh, i don't know about that—
kennedy: we're sitting ducks without them.
annabelle: we're with the slayer. safe as houses.
scene direction: kennedy to annabelle
kennedy: do you see the house we're in?
annabelle: it'll come straight for us, won't it?
buffy: we should load them up, giles.
scene direction: cut to 35 int. dining room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: andrew is still tied to a chair. xander walks into the dining room.
andrew: listen to me, man, i've got a bad feeling about this.
xander: of course you've got a bad feeling, dude. you're-you're tied to a chair.
andrew: no. yeah, but above and beyond that. i'm telling you that my spider-sense is tingling. this is gonna get hairy. i'm talking weird with a beard. better untie me.
buffy: and that'll help us, how?
scene direction: andrew sighs
andrew: ok, i know what you're thinking. andrew, bad guy. you think i'm a super-villain like dr. doom or apocalypse or-or the riddler. but i admit i went over to the dark side, but just to pick up a few things, a-and now i'm back. i've learned. i'm good again.
buffy: and when were you good before?
scene direction: buffy buffy and xander walk out
andrew: ok, technically, never. touché.
scene direction: andrew struggles against his restraints
andrew: but i'm like vader in the last 5 minutes of jedi with redemptive powers minus a redemptive struggle of epic redemption which chronicles...
scene direction: andrew stops struggling and sighs
andrew: these ropes itch.
scene direction: cut to 36 int. living room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: buffy's looking out the window, and she turns to speak to giles as he walks up to her.
buffy: how're we doing on time?
giles: sunset should be any minute now. done everything we can. and don't worry, everyone here understands that you're calling the shots.
buffy: i just hope i'm calling the right ones.
giles: you have all my faith. and they're depending on you.
buffy: giles, that's not exactly what i needed to hear right now.
scene direction: molly enters the room, interrupts them
molly: guys? annabelle split.
scene direction: cut to 37 ext. street in sunnydale - night
scene change: annabelle is running down the street, looking over her shoulder. she's run into an industrial manufacturing complex, and as she runs past a dumpster, the ubervamp jumps out and grabs her by the throat, growling and lifting her off the ground. cut to a shot of her cross pendant necklace falling to the ground.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: cut to 38 ext. street in sunnydale - night
scene direction: buffy has found her way to the same industrial manufacturing complex where annabelle was last seen being attacked by the ubervamp. she walks past the dumpster and sees annabelle's body lying still on the ground.
scene direction: buffy is visibly upset, taking a moment to contemplate the situation, when the ubervamp attacks her from behind, knocking her to the ground. buffy crawls away to crouch beside the dumpster. she looks at the ubervamp and then gets up to fight with it. she kicks, he ducks. she punches, he blocks. he punches her in the face, then in the stomach, and buffy falls to the ground face first. he picks her up and tries to choke her, but she spits blood in his face, startling him, and buffy manages to escape his clutches. she runs away, hiding in the nearby factory. the ubervamp licks the blood off of his face, growls, and heads after buffy.
scene direction: cut to 39 int. factory in sunnydale - night
scene direction: buffy runs into the factory and looks around for somewhere to hide.
scene direction: she's not making a fast flight since she's limping. she goes deeper into the building, which is very industrial in nature with many vertical metal pipes and valves. the ubervamp has followed her to the building and is looking for her. she surprises it by coming from behind it and smacking it in the head with a large metal pipe, but she doesn't even manage to knock him down. they fight and he wrestles the pipe from her hand when she swings it at him again. he throws the pipe to the ground and they return to martial arts.
scene direction: he punches her and she bends over at the waist. he kicks her in the chest, sending her crashing into a metal support beam. he comes at her again, and she drops to the ground to avoid his fist. she stands, and he punches and kicks her, finally causing her to double over in pain as he punches her ribs. he punches her in the head, sending her to the ground again. he picks her up, backhands her in the face, then punches her so hard, she flies 25 feet across the room.
scene direction: he runs toward her, but she looks around and notices a pulley hoisting a pallet of metal beams. buffy kicks a control lever for the pulley, sending the beams crashing on top of the ubervamp as he comes towards her. still lying on the ground, buffy hides her face as they land. she gets up and runs away slowly, still limping, but stops and turns around. her eyes widen as she sees the ubervamp rising from the pile of metal beams, unhurt. he leaps out of the rubble and sprints after her.
scene direction: in no time at all, he has caught up to her, grabbing her from behind and throwing her into a concrete wall. she steps back, still standing, as the ubervamp literally crawls up the wall to gain momentum and height to kick her in the face, knocking buffy to the ground. then he kicks her in the head again before grabbing her arm and throwing buffy through a concrete block wall. the wall crumbles down on top of her, the roof caves in, and there's blackness.
scene direction: cut to 40 int. factory in sunnydale - night
scene direction: in the blackness, xander's voice can be heard.
xander: buffy!
scene direction: he lifts off part of the metal roof that has fallen on top of buffy, revealing her body lying there still on the ground in a pile of rubble, her face covered in blood. xander is flanked by willow and giles.
xander: oh, god almighty.
scene direction: they all stare at buffy's beaten body.
scene direction: cut to 41 int. underground cave - night
scene direction: a frowning drusilla/first is talking to spike, who's lying face up on a rock.
first [drusilla]: do you know why you're alive?
scene direction: spike weakly
spike: never figured you for existential thought, luv. i mean, you hated paris.
first [drusilla]: you're alive for one reason, and one reason only. because i wish it. do you know why i wish it?
scene direction: first [drusilla] holds her hands to her heart
first [drusilla]: because i'm not done with you.
scene direction: spike scoffs
spike: give it up.
scene direction: spike drusilla/first rolls her eyes and turns away
spike: whatever you are, whatever you get away with, i'm out. you can't pull this puppet's strings anymore.
scene direction: first [drusilla] snaps back to face spike
first [drusilla]: and what makes you think you have a choice? what makes you think you will ever be any good at all in this world?
spike: she does. because she believes in me.
scene direction: cut to 42 int. buffy's house - night
scene direction: buffy's curled up in fetal position in a chair in an empty room, listening to the others talk in the next room. she's beaten up quite badly, her face bloody and bruised. she stares straight ahead as she listens.
giles o.s.: we could make plans as we always do, but the truth is, buffy was our plan. there is no back up.
willow o.s.: giles, she looks bad.
giles o.s.: she does. i'm afraid there may be internal bleeding.
willow o.s.: what does that mean? will she—
giles o.s.: die? i don't think so. i don't know.
willow o.s.: what do we do if she can't fight, if she can't beat this thing?
scene direction: cut to 43 int. dining room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: giles is pacing, talking. the slayers in training are sitting around the dining room table, along with dawn and anya. xander and willow are leaning against the wall.
giles: we're back at square one.
xander: which square would that be, exactly?
giles: i'm not sure. the first predates everything we've ever known, or can know. it's everywhere. it's pure. i don't know if we can fight it.
scene direction: buffy walks in, and everyone turns to look, seemingly unaware that she'd been listening.
scene direction: buffy solemn
buffy: you're right. we don't know how to fight it. we don't know when it'll come. we can't run, can't hide, can't pretend it's not the end, 'cause it is. something's always been there to try and destroy the world. we've beaten them back, but we're not dealing with them anymore. we're dealing with the reason they exist. evil. the strongest. the first.
giles: buffy, i—i-i know you're tired.
scene direction: buffy resolute
buffy: i'm beyond tired. i'm beyond scared. i'm standing on the mouth of hell, and it is gonna swallow me whole. and it'll choke on me. we're not ready? they're not ready. they think we're gonna wait for the end to come, like we always do. i'm done waiting. they want an apocalypse? oh, we'll give 'em one. anyone else who wants to run, do it now. 'cause we just became an army. we just declared war. from now on, we won't just face our worst fears, we will seek them out. we will find them, and cut out their hearts one by one, until the first shows itself for what it really is. and i'll kill it myself. there is only one thing on this earth more powerful than evil, and that's us. any questions?
scene direction: closing credits.