scene direction: cut to 14 int. luxurious study - night
scene direction: classical violin music plays as the camera pans across the room. show a wall full of shelves stuffed with leather-bound books, a desk full of trinkets of interest, such as skulls, quills, chemical bottles, an hourglass, and a comic book laid open on a pedestal. a star wars poster hangs on the wall, with action figures displayed on a shelf in front of it. there's a fire in the fireplace beneath an elaborate mantelpiece, over which hangs an anime poster and tribal masks. pan over to andrew who's sitting in a leather wing chair wearing a silk smoking jacket, holding a pipe in his right hand and an open book in his left. he's reading the book.
scene direction: andrew looks up from his reading, chuckles
andrew: oh, hello, there, gentle viewers.
scene direction: andrew closes his book
andrew: you caught me catching up on an old favorite.
scene direction: andrew pats the book
andrew: it's wonderful to get lost in a story, isn't it?
scene direction: andrew puts his hand to his chin
andrew: adventure and heroics and discovery—don't they just take you away?
scene direction: andrew puffs on the pipe, but it makes him cough, so he sets it down in the crystal tray beside his chair
andrew: come with me now, if you will, gentle viewers. join me on a new voyage of the mind. a little tale i like to call: buffy, slayer of the vampyrs.
scene direction: 14a ext. cemetery - night
scene direction: buffy's patrolling the cemetery, and she hears something suspicious.
andrew v.o.: it was cold last night, and the wind was crew-ell, but the slayer had a job to do.
scene direction: a vampire attacks her from behind, but she flips onto a tombstone and shoots him with a stake from her crossbow. he explodes into dust, but another vampire goes for her.
andrew v.o.: unfortunately, vampires have a job to do, too.
scene direction: she backflips off of the tombstone and lands on the ground, ready to fight him in hand-to-hand combat. he pushes her against a tomb.
andrew: ouch! my goodness! things look bad for the slayer, don't they? she didn't see that second vampire, concealed by cover of darkness, ready—
scene direction: andrew there's a knock at the door; andrew ignores it
andrew: ready to attack and make her his own vampirical spawn.
scene direction: cut to 15 int. upstairs bathroom at buffy's house - day
scene direction: andrew's sitting on the closed toilet seat, talking to a camcorder.
andrew: let's rejoin them now to see—
scene direction: anya opens the door
anya: for god's sakes, andrew. you've been in here for 30 minutes. what are you doing?
andrew: entertaining and educating.
anya: why can't you just masturbate like the rest of us?
scene direction: andrew stares at her with an uncomfortable smile.
scene direction: opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: cut to 16 ext. cemetery - night
scene direction: resume the fight between buffy and the vampire. the vampire charges her, but she has a stake ready. andrew was filming them from behind a nearby grave.
scene direction: andrew runs up to buffy, video camera in hand
andrew: that was great. i completely got you dusting that guy on film. hey, why do vampires show up on video?
scene direction: buffy shown through the camcorder
buffy: i told you i didn't want you doing that. it's distracting.
scene direction: buffy walks away
scene direction: andrew still taping, he walks beside her
andrew: ok, i'll cut the footage together and do the intro tomorrow. "she was a woman in danger, or was she?"
buffy: are you still filming me? stop!
andrew: but it's a valuable record. an important document for the ages. "a slayer in action."
scene direction: buffy leans toward andrew
buffy: "a nerd in pain." would they like that? 'cause we could do that.
scene direction: buffy walks away
scene direction: cut to 17 int. upstairs hallway at buffy's house - day
scene direction: anya is dragging andrew out of the bathroom by his collar. meanwhile, there's at least three girls lined up outside the bathroom door.
andrew: but the story needs to be told.
scene direction: anya lets go of him
anya: birds need to fly, and girls need to use the toilet, and why were you video taping yourself, anyway? sounds like kinky business to me.
andrew: the world's gonna want to know about buffy. it's a story of ultimate triumph tainted with the bitterness for what's been lost in the struggle. it's a legacy for future generations.
anya: if there are any. buffy seems to think that this apocalypse is going to actually be, you know, apocalyptic. i think your—your story seems pretty pointless.
andrew: oh,
scene direction: andrew looks away
andrew: i was gonna interview you later today,
scene direction: andrew stands close to anya, looking in her eyes
andrew: 'cause, you know, your whole perspective on the whole thing. give it editorial balance and, uh,
scene direction: andrew cocks his head to the side, looks at her
andrew: glamour...
scene direction: anya looks pensive, nods
anya: oh, well balance is important. people don't always take that into account. i could bring that to you. absolutely.
scene direction: cut to 18 int. basement at buffy's house - day
scene direction: viewed in "play" mode on the camcorder, andrew's in the basement standing in front of the "big board" holding the remote control for the video camera. it's propped up on the washer and dryer, and has been erased and redrawn since last episode. now, it's got a flaming red face in the upper right quadrant, a depiction of a group of 5 harbingers in the lower right quadrant, a drawing of a building in the upper left quadrant, and a fiery mess with a black hole and a brown monster are in the lower left. andrew comes off as a novice presenter, fidgeting and stuttering frequently.
andrew: let's explore the world of our story, shall we? this—uh, buffy lives in sunnydale, california.
scene direction: andrew moves to the side so the whole board can be seen, uses the remote to zoom the camera in as he points to the building with a marker
andrew: um, this is the local high school.
scene direction: the video cuts to a zoomed-in shot of the lower left quadrant of the board. it's labeled "hellmouth" and has a depiction of the seal (in black) and the brown monster drawn coming from the seal is labeled "ubervamp."
andrew: there's a hellmouth—hellmouth—underneath the high school. see, weird things happen on the hellmouth
scene direction: andrew zoom out
andrew: that attracts all sorts of, uh, bad people and demons and vampires. and now there's this thing in the basement of the high school called the-the seal of danzal—danzalthar, and it's sort of a door to the hellmouth.
scene direction: andrew stands in front of the board, nervously
andrew: uh, due to some circumstances it got opened up... a little bit... recently...uh, and this, uh, nasty, nasty vampire thing came out of it. it was, uh, it was just awful, awful. this whole thing—
scene direction: andrew gestures in a circle with the marker
andrew: whole thing—is being orchestrated by something called "the first". it's made up of all the evil in the whole world. oh, there's also these guys.
scene direction: andrew points to the harbingers
andrew: they work for the first. we don't know much about them except that they're very ugly and they're very mobile for blind people. is that all clear?
scene direction: cut to 19 int. kitchen at buffy's house - day
scene direction: andrew, with camcorder in hand, is video taping activity in the kitchen. the room is full of people.
andrew: it's morning in sunnydale—
scene direction: rona looking in the fridge
rona: who the hell's got the low-fat milk?
andrew: it's morning in sunnydale, and the women of command central take the time to fortify themselves for the day ahead.
scene direction: andrew kennedy and willow pours themselves each a bowl of cereal
scene direction: xander eating cereal from the box, scowls at andrew
xander: hey!
andrew: women and xander.
scene direction: andrew puts the camera down for a moment
andrew: hey, i'm gonna do your special intro later. "the man who is the heart of the slayer machine."
scene direction: xander smiles
xander: yeah? the heart?
scene direction: xander blushes
scene direction: andrew recording again, walks around the room
andrew: things are tense in command central this morning. buffy is clearly concerned with some unknown danger, and the air is filled with foreboding.
scene direction: dawn drying dishes
dawn: oh, um, we're out of raisin bran.
anya: i'll put it on the list.
andrew: that's probably not the unknown danger.
scene direction: spike walks into the kitchen
spike: look at this place. damn girls' dorm is what it is.
scene direction: spike lights up a cigarette
dawn: that's nice. second-hand stinkiness.
andrew: full house. i think it's a good time to do some introductions, don't you, gentle viewers?
scene direction: amanda standing in front of andrew, she waves and talks into the camera
amanda: i'm amanda, and i grew up right here—
scene direction: andrew looks up from the camera
andrew: not you, sweetheart.
scene direction: andrew mouths "sorry" to amanda
andrew: let's start from the top.
scene direction: andrew narrates while the video shown is in a super-produced ultra-glamorous style.
andrew v.o.: you've already met buffy.
scene direction: andrew v.o.:  buffy gracefully pours herself a bowl of cereal, and shakes her hair sexily in the breeze that comes from nowhere, and looks directly into the camera
andrew v.o.: : she's beautiful, with a lion's heart and—
scene direction: andrew v.o.:  buffy winks
andrew v.o.: : and the face of an angel. she's never afraid 'cause she knows her side will always win.
scene direction: andrew v.o.:  a shirtless spike enters view, walking up to buffy; they look as if they will kiss, but don't; instead, he touches her waist, and buffy touches his arms as they nearly embrace
andrew v.o.: : buffy and spike have some kind of history—you can feel the heat between them. although, technically, as a vampire, he's room temperature.
scene direction: andrew v.o.:  flits sexily into view, crossing in front of spike and buffy, twirling and eating from a bunch of grapes, then smiling into the camera
andrew v.o.: : anya, a feisty waif with a firey temper and a vulnerable heart that she hides, even from herself.
scene direction: andrew v.o.:  camera pans over to a blonde girl eating from a bowl of cereal
andrew v.o.: : this lovely girl—i don't remember her name—
scene direction: buffy to xander
buffy: oh, for god's sake. is he doing that again? can't we make him stop?
rona: i don't know, if we save the world, it will be kind of nice to have a record of it.
scene direction: rona buffy rolls her eyes
amanda: if we don't save the world, then... nothing matters.
scene direction: kennedy pauses in her breakfast, spoon still in hand
kennedy: that's catchy, amanda. let's make that our slogan.
xander: yeah, it is kinda strange, how you keep saving the world, and there's not any proof.
anya: yeah, you know, for future generations.
willow: and it does help the girls with training—you know, viewing the tapes.
buffy: come on. no one else thinks this is idiotic?
xander: or is it important? i mean, buff, i don't get why this is bothering you so much.
buffy: because it's a waste of time. come on, someone has to agree with me. spike?
spike: long as you're not pointing that thing at me, seems like a fine way to keep the boy busy.
buffy: this isn't about keeping busy. this is about war. i'm sorry to jump all over you guys, but... i have to tell you what's really going on. there's something new.
scene direction: buffy andrew walks around behind buffy
buffy: amanda, dawn—you're gonna stay home from school today. we can survive what's coming, but not like this.
scene direction: buffy andrew goes into the dining room, but buffy continues talking
buffy: i had a vision of what's to come—a horrible vision. hundreds upon hundreds of...
scene direction: cut to 20 int. dining room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: while buffy talks in the other room, andrew sets the video camera on the dining room table and talks to it.
andrew: honestly, gentle viewers, these motivating speeches of hers tend to get a little long. i'll take you back in there in—in a little while, but in the in-between time, i thought you might want to know a little about me, your humble host. you see, i am a man with a burden. a man with a dark past. you see, i was once a super villain.
scene direction: 20a int. evil workshop - day
scene direction: an chemistry laboratory has been set up on the table, complete with bubbling colored liquids in an elaborate set of interconnected tubes, vials and beakers. ultra-suave andrew, in a black suit, black shirt, and black tie, is talking to geeky jonathan and warren, who are dressed in jeans and t-shirts and protective eye goggles..
andrew: thus the validity of the bronsted-debye-huckel equation at low ionic strength has been amply tested, and the charges on the reactant ions are well-known, if their reagents are properly characterized.
scene direction: jonathan looks at andrew
jonathan: it smells funny.
scene direction: andrew looks at jonathan
andrew:  know, kinda sweaty.
scene direction: andrew looks at the camera, squints
scene direction: all three men turn around at once. warren and jonathan flank andrew.
warren: what'll it do to buffy?
andrew: make her super magnetic!
scene direction: andrew gestures emphatically with two fists
jonathan: wow, she won't be able to get out of her car.
warren: and knives and other sharp things will fly at her.
scene direction: warren gestures like the knives
andrew: we could walk right by her, and she wouldn't be able to stop us.
scene direction: warren takes off his goggles, looks worried
warren: unless we were wearing metal belt buckles, then we would stick to her.
andrew: in my plan, we are beltless.
scene direction: jonathan takes off goggles
jonathan: wow, you're the best, andrew.
scene direction: andrew looks sexily into the camera as warren and jonathan fawn over him.
warren: yep, and good-looking and smart too.
jonathan: yeah, wow.
scene direction: andrew looking into the camera
andrew: warren was cool. and wasn't jonathan just the cutest thing? well, shall we see if buffy's still talking?
scene direction: points the camera toward the kitchen. buffy's back is in view, and willow can be seen facing buffy. willow yawns.
buffy: i mean mentally. and from what i've seen so far, there's is no way your girls are ready. you have to...
andrew: she's not done. even willow looks bored, and she usually can take a lot of that stuff. look at her.
scene direction: andrew kennedy walks up to willow and cuddles while buffy's talking
andrew: ooh, ooh, do you see that? that-that's important. willow and kennedy have been in kind of a bad place lately, but things are looking up. you see, kennedy pursued the reluctant willow and won her heart, only to find herself frightened when she glimpsed the darkness that still lies within the witch's mind. side note—i once had my own personal encounter with dark willow.
scene direction: 20b int. magic box - day
scene direction: andrew and jonathan are having a face-off with dark willow.
dark willow: jonathan, andrew, you boys like magic, don't you? abracadabra!
scene direction: willow holds her hands out toward jonathan and andrew, and black light shoots out of her palms toward them. a panicked jonathan hides behind cool, calm andrew.
scene direction: jonathan screams in fright
jonathan: yee!
andrew: haltem!
dark willow: ok, didn't see that coming.
andrew: that's because we have power you can't imagine.
scene direction: jonathan still hiding behind andrew
jonathan: we do?
andrew: you, dark willow, wield a force of mighty evil, it's true. but you are new to the game, little one.
dark willow: you know what they say. if at first, you don't succeed...
jonathan: holy cats! here it comes again.
scene direction: andrew calmly waves his hand
andrew: i deflect thy power.
dark willow: damn, that is one effective counter spell.
andrew: thank you, little one. thank you.
andrew: she was something. indeed she was. hey, i think buffy stopped talking. that usually means she had to go to work. let's see what the little locusts left for breakfast, shall we?
scene direction: cut to 21 int. hallway at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: buffy walks into the school, talking to herself. there's a lot of commotion in the hallway.
scene direction: buffy to herself
buffy: not late. not late 'til the bell rings.
scene direction: buffy looks up to see two boys fighting, goes to break them up
buffy: hey! hey!
scene direction: buffy stands between them, pushing them apart
buffy: break it up!
scene direction: buffy bell rings
buffy: get to class.
scene direction: buffy they go separate ways; buffy looks down the hall
buffy: uh-oh.
scene direction: buffy a girl is fading away in front of the lockers, buffy goes up to her
buffy: hey, shy girl, don't do this. oh...
scene direction: buffy buffy slaps the girl
scene direction: shy girl astonished
shy girl: you knew i was there.
buffy: yeah.
shy girl: you noticed me.
buffy: it's ok, i promise. it may seem ba—
scene direction: buffy a girl comes out of the bathroom beside the lockers where buffy's standing; the girl is sobbing
buffy: wh-wh-what's wrong?
crying girl: the mirror said i was fat. it said it.
scene direction: crying girl walks off crying
scene direction: buffy watches the crying girl walk off, and her attention is pulled to another conversation where a stressed boy is venting to his friends.
stressed out boy: i'm so—i can't take this semester anymore. it's just so much for me to handle. so, not only does mr. hildebrand move up the trig exam to today, but he also makes it cover three more chapters. and i've got an english paper due tomorrow. i feel like i'm gonna explode.
scene direction: buffy walks up to the boy
buffy: hey, uh, i can help. you just need to relax, you know?
scene direction: buffy to his friends
buffy: you know, um, maybe one of you guys could give him a foot rub?
stressed out boy: what?
scene direction: cut to 22 int. offices at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: buffy walks into the office area, only to see principal wood standing next to the front desk holding an ice pack to his head.
buffy: something bad is going on.
robin wood: oh, is that right?
scene direction: buffy sits
buffy: ooh, you're hurt. what happened?
robin wood: someone threw a rock at me as i got out of my car. i didn't really get a good chance to see who.
scene direction: buffy takes a bandage from the first-aid kit on the desk and unwraps it
buffy: yeah, well, it could have been any of them. students, teachers—something is going on today.
robin wood: yes, well, um, that occurred to me as i ducked the other two rocks. buffy, what the hell is this?
scene direction: buffy puts the bandage on wood's brow
buffy: everything.
robin wood: slowly, i may be concussed here.
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: there this thing that happens here, in this school, over the hell mouth. where the way a thing feels—it kind of starts being that way...for real. i've seen all these things before...just not all at once.
robin wood: so, what, it's like hell's a bustin' out all over?
buffy: exactly.
scene direction: insert a clip of andrew standing in front of the "big board" tapping a marker against the drawing of the hellmouth and nodding.
robin wood: so, what's the worst that can happen?
buffy: war, pretty much.
robin wood: oh, i see you're being amusing now with comical exaggeration.
buffy: being in high school can feel like being at war. now it's true. the students feel like the teachers are out to get them. the chess club resents the french club for taking the activities room, and, well, everybody hates the cheerleaders. if we don't do something about this, we're gonna have a riot on our hands. and a lot of other nasty stuff too.
robin wood: like what?
scene direction: a boy in the hallway screams, increasingly louder, until he explodes off screen, leaving bloody residue splattered all over the outside of the office window.
scene direction: buffy looks sadly out the window
buffy: really should have had that foot rub.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: cut to 23 int. dining room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: andrew's video-taping dawn, who's sitting at the table, studying, amid a half-dozen pizza boxes.
andrew: dawn is a typical american teenager. bubbly and sweet with a hunger for fun and a smile that lights up the room.
scene direction: dawn blushes, waves
dawn: hello.
andrew: dawn used to be a key.
scene direction: andrew zooms to keys on the table
andrew: i don't really know what that means.
scene direction: cut to 24 int. living room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: through the camera lens, show andrew entering the living room. willow and kennedy are sitting on the sofa, kissing.
andrew: hey, here's something i think you're going to be interested in, gentle viewers.
scene direction: andrew zooms in on the window behind the sofa
andrew: look at the fine work xander did on that replacing that window sash. you can't even tell it's new, it blends in so well. he's extraordinary.
scene direction: cut to 25 int. office at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: buffy and robin are looking at blueprints of the school that are spread out on the table in front of them. buffy's seated at the table, and robin is looking over her shoulder.
robin wood: you've dealt with this before? i mean, you've seen stuff like this in a high school?
buffy: sure, you know, swim team monsters or killer prom dogs. again, not all at once.
robin wood: so, what makes now so special?
buffy: my guess—it's that seal thing in the basement. it's like all the hellmouth's energy is trying to escape in that one little spot, and it's getting all—
robin wood: focusy.
scene direction: buffy looks at robin
buffy: careful. you're starting to speak like me now.
scene direction: cut to 26 int. living room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: andrew's talking into the camera. anya and xander are seated on the sofa.
andrew: this is xander and anya interview number 1 for "buffy, a slayer of the vampyrs."
scene direction: andrew sits in the chair across from the sofa, and repositions the camera on the chair arm.
anya: that's what you're calling it?
andrew: either that or "buffy, the slayer who knew no fear."
xander: i like that one.
andrew: thank you, xander. that's sweet of you.
scene direction: andrew crosses his legs, gets his notepad out
andrew: i understand that exactly one year ago today you left anya at the altar. any comment on that?
xander: whoa. what the hell?
andrew: i just think people will be interested.
anya: i know i am.
scene direction: anya looks at xander
anya: what do you have to say for yourself one year later?
xander: i've apologized enough, that's what i have to say.
andrew: but you think it was something that called for an apology?
xander: well, yes.
andrew: so you don't think it was the right thing to do.
anya: of course he doesn't think it was the right thing to do.
scene direction: anya looks at xander
scene direction: xander looks at anya
xander: it was the right thing to do.
anya: what?
andrew: interesting. i think we're getting something here.
xander: look, anya, if i had married you, it would have been against everything i thought was best. it wouldn't have worked.
anya: but we—we still spark. i mean, i get jealous of you. you get jealous of me. you still love me.
andrew: is that true, xander? do you still love her?
scene direction: cut to 27 int. basement at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: the seal of danzalthar is exposed in the dirt floor. buffy and robin are walking around the edge of it.
buffy: i swear we just covered this thing up.
robin wood: it doesn't want to stay hidden anymore. it wants to turn these kids into monsters and victims and who knows what.
buffy: it's more than that. look, robin, i, um, i had a vision the other day.
robin wood: you have visions?
buffy: sometimes.
scene direction: buffy nods
robin wood: oh. well, how do you know that they're not just dreams?
buffy: you're running to catch the bus naked? that's a dream. army of vicious vampire creatures? that's a vision. also, i was awake.
robin wood: a bus to where? i mean, an army of how many?
buffy: hundreds. maybe hundreds of hundreds. all i know is the last ubervamp i faced crawled out of that very hole.
scene direction: buffy backs up
buffy: it makes me awfully nervous.
scene direction: buffy robin walks onto the seal
buffy: what are you doing?
robin wood: now, have you ever really studied it? you know, gotten close?
scene direction: robin wood kneels on the seal
buffy: well, i know it's a goat with its tongue out. uh, willow did a search on the symbolic database, but it turns out everybody loves a good goat's tongue. rock groups, covens and greek cookbooks. she said she couldn't narrow it down.
scene direction: robin wood looks at buffy
robin wood: and you trust her?
buffy: yes, why wouldn't i trust her?
robin wood: i don't know why any of you should trust each other. you've all been evil at some point, right?
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: no, that's not true. yeah, willow had a bad patch, but i've never been.
scene direction: robin wood in a deep voice
robin wood: evil is what evil does, and i know what you're doing.
scene direction: robin wood stands, looks at buffy—his eyes are white
robin wood: you're with that vampire, screwing that vampire. you filthy whore!
scene direction: robin wood charges at buffy
scene direction: buffy dodges robin, who runs into the wall; buffy goes to his side
buffy: robin, are you ok?
scene direction: robin wood panting
robin wood: whoa. what happened?
buffy: i—i think it was controlling you.
robin wood: buffy, we've got to get rid of this seal. we've got to shut it down before it starts affecting everyone.
buffy: i think i have a pretty good idea who we should talk to.
robin wood: yeah, who's that?
buffy: the guy that fed it it's first drop of blood.
scene direction: a pink piglet oinks as it runs across the room in front of them.
robin wood: god, i hope that's not a student.
scene direction: cut to 28 int. basement at buffy's house - day
scene direction: through the lens of the video camera, show spike yelling at andrew.
scene direction: spike takes the cigarette out of his mouth
spike: i thought i told you to piss off with this bloody camera, yet here you are again with that thing in my face. would you sod off
scene direction: spike flicks the cigarette at andrew
spike: before i rip your throat out and eat—
andrew: ok, spike. the light was kind of behind you.
scene direction: spike looks around
spike: oh, right. uh, what? is this better then? i thought i told you to piss off with this bloody camera, yet here you are again with that thing in my face. would you sod off—?
scene direction: cut to 29 int. living room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: anya and xander are sitting on the couch, talking.
scene direction: anya arms crossed
anya: you keep dodging the question.
scene direction: xander leaning forward
xander: i don't mean to. it's just—you know how i feel, right? and you were the one who didn't want to keep seeing each other.
anya: and here's where we hop on the merry-go-round of rotating knives. i blame you, and you blame me, and we both end up all cut to shreds. please just tell— do you still love me?
scene direction: xander nods
xander: yes. i still love you. i always will. i just don't know if that means anything for us anymore.
anya: well, i love you too. i don't know if that means anything either.
xander: well, it's nice to hear.
scene direction: xander now show the conversation through the camcorder playback mode
xander: i'm not gonna find anyone out there like you, am i?
anya: doesn't seem likely.
xander: i guess i'm more replaceable, obviously.
anya: no.
scene direction: anya andrew is mouthing anya's words as he watches the tape
anya: there's no one like you, xander. you were willing to stand up to danger, even when your hands had no weapons. you were ready to protect me with your life.
xander: yeah, i guess we fit together pretty good.
anya: we fit together great.
xander: you know, sometimes, i want to be back in your life.
anya: i hope you know you never left my heart.
scene direction: practically in tears, andrew rewinds the tape.
xander: i'm not gonna find anyone out there like you, am i?
anya: doesn't seem likely.
scene direction: buffy storms in through the front door. robin wood is with her.
buffy: heads up, andrew. we've got to talk.
robin wood: we just spent the day keeping a lid on a war.
scene direction: andrew stands
andrew: ooh, that would be very exciting on tape.
scene direction: buffy crosses arms
buffy: the school is out of control with energy from the hellmouth. it's time for you to help, andrew.
andrew: well, right now, i'm really more about the recording of the—
buffy: no! no more watching. the seal thing is your baby, and you gotta get in there before it tears everything apart.
scene direction: cut to 30 int. basement at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: five students enter the room where the seal is located. they kneel in a circle around the seal, and hold their hands over it, chanting in latin. the seal glows.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: cut to 31 int. dingy apartment - night
scene direction: title - somewhere in mexico, 2002.
scene direction: andrew and jonathan are sharing a bed. they are tossing and turning in thier sleep. as they sleep, a voice speaks in their dreams as images appear, flashing from one to the other rapidly. the whole dream sequence lasts approximately ten seconds.
mysterious voice v.o.: desde abajo te devora. desde abajo te devora.
scene direction: the seal of danzalthar.
scene direction: a potential slayer fleeing.
scene direction: the turok-han climbing out of the ground.
scene direction: a potential slayer fleeing.
scene direction: spike's ritualistically cut body bleeding out, suspended from the ceiling.
scene direction: jonathan and andrew fleeing sunnydale.
scene direction: the turok-han attacking.
scene direction: a potential slayer fleeing.
scene direction: the potential from turkey being killed.
scene direction: the seal of danzalthar starting to open.
scene direction: bringer's murdering a potential.
scene direction: the turok-han attacking.
scene direction: the seal of danzalthar continuing to open.
scene direction: the potential from turkey dying.
scene direction: the cheese man. (from episode 4x22 "restless")
scene direction: the turok-han.
scene direction: cheese slices laid out, neatly in a row on a pedestal (as in willow's dream from "restless")
scene direction: bringer's murdering the german potential slayer.
scene direction: the turok-han attacking.
scene direction: the seal of danzalthar opening, the points of the pentagram folding in.
scene direction: the turok-han attacking.
scene direction: bringer's murdering a potential.
scene direction: the seal of danzalthar opening, the pentagram has folded inward, forming a pyramid that sinks into the ground.
scene direction: they both wake, visibly upset from the dreams.
jonathan: oh, my god. oh, my god.
scene direction: andrew spanish pronunciation
andrew: jesus.
scene direction: jonathan nearly in tears
jonathan: did you have it again? i had it again. that voice...
andrew: desme abdo tay deborah. what does it mean? what does it mean?
jonathan: let's try looking it up again in the morning in the dictionario. holy cats, that was terrifying.
andrew: we're fugitives, haunted by our past, tormented by a message we don't understand.
jonathan: we're hunted men, driven mad by forces beyond our understanding.
andrew: we're men of hidden power, tortured from within by-by a voice from out of nowhere.
jonathan: i don't deserve this. i wasn't even that evil.
andrew: i thought you were evil.
scene direction: jonathan looks at andrew
jonathan: yeah?
scene direction: andrew they both sit up
andrew: sure. i respected your ideas for evil projects, and i thought you had good follow-through.
jonathan: oh, well, thanks. it's nice that you noticed.
willow v.o.: ok, i think we're getting a little off track here.
scene direction: cut to 32 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: andrew's sitting in a chair, while willow, kennedy, robin wood, spike, and buffy look on.
andrew: i don't want to do this anymore. everyone's staring at me.
scene direction: willow holding a large, glowing, orange crystal in front of andrew
willow: just focus on the charm. you have to focus on the charm to pull the memories out.
robin wood: tell us about the seal.
andrew: but it tickles, and i'm all tense. can't i have a cool, refreshing zima?
buffy: no zima.
spike: shut your face about the zima. just talk.
buffy: you were the first one to uncover the seal and feed it blood. how did you know it was there? how did you know what to do?
andrew: i-i don't know. stuff happened.
scene direction: andrew shrugs
andrew: i forget.
kennedy: so remember. look at the charm.
andrew: but, i—i'm not a part of this. i document, i don't participate. i'm a detached journalist, recording with a neutral eye.
buffy: andrew! stop it, or i'm going to smash this camera over your head. actually, i'm gonna do that anyway, so you might as well talk.
willow: stop going off topic.
andrew: i wasn't off topic. it's gonna get relevant in a second, because jonathan's gonna go to the bathroom.
scene direction: 32a int. dingy apartment in mexico - night
scene direction: resume. jonathan and andrew are talking in bed.
jonathan: i'm gonna go to the bathroom.
scene direction: jonathan stands and leaves the room
scene direction: andrew singing to himself in bed
andrew: la cucaracha. la cucaracha. la la la la la.
scene direction: andrew turns over, and sees warren/first leaning over him
first [warren]: did you get the knife?
scene direction: andrew gasps, stands
andrew: oh, gosh. gosh, i'm glad to see you.
first [warren]: me too. you're looking good.
scene direction: andrew touches his face and chest bashfully
andrew: am i? i...probably have pillow creases.
first [warren]: no, no, it's good. you're a man on the run. you got kind of a wild, desperate thing going.
scene direction: first [warren] walks closer to andrew
first [warren]: did you, uh, did you get the knife?
andrew: yeah. it wasn't easy. i had to meet this demon guy who sells all kinds of weird weapons and stuff.
first [warren]: yeah, show me.
andrew: well, i didn't buy them, but there were poison arrows and this sort of collapsible sword—
first [warren]: show me the knife!
andrew: oh, right.
scene direction: andrew chuckles, bends to get a box from under the bed
first [warren]: quick, before the shortcake comes back.
scene direction: andrew opens the box and takes out the knife
andrew: oh, it'll be a while. he's got a shy bladder.
scene direction: andrew calls over toward the bathroom
andrew: jonathan, you ok in there?
jonathan o.s.: don't talk to me. i'm fine.
andrew: pretty knife, except the, uh, the stabbing—i don't—i don't think i can do it. jonathan has been a good friend to me here in mehico. he said he'll buy me a burro.
first [warren]: oh, you can stab him. it's all part of the plan. that boy's blood is a powerful tribute. it's a—it's a gift to something very big, very important, and ultimately, won't even hurt him. we get a reward. you and me and him too.
andrew: we live as gods.
first [warren]: that's right, man. the trio.
scene direction: first [warren] snaps and points
first [warren]: living as gods.
scene direction: 32b ext. fantastic fields - day
scene direction: andrew, warren, and jonathan are dressed in togas, playing harps, and frolicking in the fields of daisies (oversized black-eyed susans and poppies, to be specific). butterflies flit around and bars of gold lie around in piles. a unicorn runs by them as they dance and sing.
scene direction: andrew singing
andrew: we are gods. oh, we are gods. we are as gods. we are as gods!
scene direction: 32a int. dingy apartment in mexico - night
scene direction: resume. andrew and warren/first are talking.
first [warren]: there's power in that knife. drive the words deep into him. it's the only way for us to get our reward.
andrew: got it. if i kill him with this knife, we live as gods.
willow: wait a second. go back. what was that part again?
andrew: you mean this part?
scene direction: 32b ext. fantastic fields - day
scene direction: andrew frolics in the field of flowers again, dancing and singing with jonathan and warren.
scene direction: andrew singing
andrew: we are as gods!
willow: not that part. we need to see that knife. there's something there.
buffy: kennedy, search his stuff. find the knife.
andrew: it's not in my stuff. it's in the kitchen, in the cutlery drawer. you didn't have any steak knives.
willow: you put your old murder weapon in with our utensils?
andrew: i washed it.
spike: what are you looking for?
willow: he said the first said something about words. "drive the words deep into him."
andrew: there was some carving on the blade. i just thought it was a pattern.
kennedy: found it.
willow: ok, you're mr. demon-summoner. how are you with demon languages?
andrew: whoa, you were right. it's in tawarick. it's, uh, like proto-tawarick. it's really, really old.
kennedy: but, what's the big?
robin wood: we never knew anything about this seal. now, we know this knife and this language are connected to it somehow.
willow: andrew, do you speak tawarick?
andrew: yeah, i'm ok with it. it says, "the blood which i spill, i consecrate to the oldest evil."
kennedy: creepy.
buffy: will, what're you thinking? you think you can do something with that?
scene direction: willow takes the knife from andrew, looks closely at the blade
willow: i— let me work on it.
scene direction: cut to 33 int. buffy's house - night
scene direction: willow's sitting at the dining room table, using her laptop. buffy's standing behind her, looking over her shoulder.
willow: i think it's got a shot.
scene direction: they walk into the living room, where spike, robin wood, and kennedy are keeping an eye on andrew.
buffy: guess what, andy. you just won yourself a free vacation to the beautiful downtown hellmouth.
spike: so he can do what? yell at it in its own language?
willow: maybe.
robin wood: what? i—i'm not following.
buffy: look, we have to deal with the seal right away. we already might have to just shut the school down, and i'm not losing any more territory to the first. besides, it's the only thing we've got.
willow: the seal responds to this language somehow, or-or the first wouldn't have needed this knife. andrew knows the language, can really talk to it, maybe give it commands.
buffy: robin, spike, let's go.
scene direction: cut to 34 int. hallway at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: spike, robin wood, andrew and buffy are standing in the hallway, staring. spike and buffy have flashlights, and andrew has his camcorder. the hall has 55-gallon drums with fires in them. every foot of wall has been spray-painted with phrases like "die cheerleaders" and "marching band rules". lockers are all hanging open.
buffy: riot that almost happened.
robin wood: looks to me like it happened after all.
scene direction: someone throws a glass bottle against a wall, shattering it.
spike: looks to me like it's still happening.
scene direction: they all walk further into the school.
spike: nice way to run a school.
scene direction: spike looking around
spike: there's got to be kids injured in here.
robin wood: yeah, easy picking for the likes of you, huh?
scene direction: spike looks at wood
spike: hey, here to help, you know.
robin wood: right.
scene direction: andrew into his camera
andrew: check out spike and the principal. there's something going on there. sexual tension you could cut with a knife.
scene direction: the place is completely trashed. kids are running around the school making noise. one runs by carrying a hockey stick.
scene direction: spike looking around
spike: these kids went nuts, didn't they?
scene direction: robin wood sarcastically
robin wood: no kidding.
buffy: shh, they'll hear you.
robin wood: buffy, they're all the way down—
scene direction: some kid hiding around a corner jumps out and hits robin in the head with a fire extinguisher, but buffy pulls him away from robin. andrew hides as the kids attack. one kid grabs buffy and carries her off, while another hits spike over the back with a locker door.
buffy: spike!
spike: the kids are getting stronger.
scene direction: andrew running away, still taping
andrew: oh, god. struck down before i achieve redemption.
scene direction: buffy, spike, and wood fight the kids off. buffy trips one boy, while wood picks up the locker door to knock another boy down. spike starts punching one of the boys.
buffy: spike!
scene direction: buffy he turns to look at buffy
buffy: don't kill them. they're just students.
spike: they'll live.
scene direction: spike punches the boy again
scene direction: buffy walks further down the hall and finds the basement entry door.
buffy: ok, spike, wood. i need you guys to stay here, hold our line of retreat.
andrew: so, i'll be staying here with these men, helping out that holding the line thing.
scene direction: andrew buffy frowns and grabs andrew's arm
andrew: i'll be with buffy.
scene direction: cut to 35 int. basement at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: buffy and andrew go down the stairs into the basement.
scene direction: andrew videotaping
andrew: we make our way down the stairs carefully, alert for any danger.
buffy: oh, stop it.
andrew: i was just—
scene direction: buffy takes the camera from him
buffy: no more.
scene direction: buffy closes the camera
andrew: but i just—i just want the world to see what you do.
buffy: what i do is too important to show the world.
andrew: ooh, i like that.
buffy: be quiet! i don't want a biographer, especially a murderer.
andrew: yeah, well, see, about that—we just keep tossing that word around, but that's not really what happened.
buffy: what? you stabbed jonathan to death. what were you trying to do? scratch his back from the front?
andrew: it was confusing. jonathan and i were digging, but warren was there, and only i could see him—
scene direction: 35a int. basement at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: andrew and jonathan are uncovering the seal in the basement while warren/first watches.
andrew: not one of them cares about you.
jonathan: but i care about them. that's why i'm here.
first [warren]: do it. stab him.
andrew: no, i can't do it.
scene direction: jonathan stops digging
jonathan: what?
first [warren]: do it now.
andrew: this isn't right.
first [warren]: stab him. spill the blood.
jonathan: who are you talking to? what isn't right?
first [warren]: what's wrong with you? are you a little coward?
andrew: no, but did you actually think i could use this?
scene direction: andrew pulls out the knife
first [warren]: that good.
jonathan: a knife?
first [warren]: just do it. it'll feel good.
jonathan: what's going on?
andrew: he's making me do it.
scene direction: jonathan angrily
jonathan: you tricked me. damn you! i'll kill you first.
scene direction: jonathan charges andrew
jonathan: i'll kill you!
first [warren]: stab him! you have to! if you fail, you'll die a lost soul, and i'll hate you forever!
scene direction: andrew and jonathan fight, and andrew accidentally stabs jonathan.
scene direction: andrew crying
andrew: no!
scene direction: andrew holds his hands up to the sky
andrew: see, i'm a man trapped by circumstances into paying for a crime i didn't even—
scene direction: andrew buffy mumbles
andrew: what?
buffy: no, i just thought you would say that. i saw the seal possess wood like that earlier today.
andrew: yes. yes. see...
scene direction: 35b int. basement at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: andrew and jonathan are uncovering the seal in the basement.
jonathan: that's why i'm here.
scene direction: andrew turns toward jonathan, white-eyed, possessed, stabs jonathan
andrew: die.
scene direction: andrew stabs him again
andrew: die!
scene direction: andrew stabs him again
andrew: die!
scene direction: andrew looks up and sees warren/first watching them, looks at the bloody knife
andrew: what have i done?
scene direction: andrew screaming
andrew: get out of my brain! aaaah!
buffy: you just completely changed your entire story.
andrew: did not.
buffy: uh, ya did too.
andrew: did—uh, hey, here we are.
scene direction: there's chanting from the room with the seal in it.
buffy: there's someone in there. no. we're going in. just be prepared, ok? the seal could have done anything to them. go.
scene direction: cut to 36 int. basement at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: buffy and andrew go into the seal room and see the five kids that were chanting there before have now become bringers, complete with the self-mutilation of the eyes. they all turn to face buffy.
buffy: nope, they're ok.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: cut to 37 int. basement at buffy's house - night
scene direction: xander and anya are lying in bed together naked on a cot in the basement. candles are lit around the room. they both seem out of breath.
xander: wow.
anya: wow, wow.
xander: that was nice.
anya: certainly was, you carpenter you.
xander: it's too bad buffy took spike's chains down, huh?
anya: you said it.
xander: mmm, i feel good.
anya: well, yeah. i'm a spitfire in the bedroom.
xander: yeah, i knew we'd always do that again.
anya: yeah, one more time anyway.
xander: is that what that was?
scene direction: xander looks at anya
xander: one more time?
anya: do you think there should be more?
xander: i don't know. it was nice. it felt, um—it felt like a one more time.
anya: i think maybe we're really over. which is—it's good, right? i mean, now we can move on.
xander: sure.
scene direction: cut to 38 int. hallway at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: spike and wood are still guarding the basement door. spike's rummaging around through the debris.
spike: wonder what's keeping 'em. i thought they'd be up here by now.
scene direction: spike picks up a 2x4 with a dozen nails sticking out of it
spike: how'd they make this in here, you suppose?
scene direction: spike tosses it to robin
robin wood: wood shop, i guess. it's nice to know they're paying attention in class.
scene direction: some kids jump spike and wood, starting a fight. while fighting them off, wood splinters the 2x4, breaking a shard off of it. wood picks up the wood fragment and eyes spike, whose back it toward him as he fights off one of the boys. wood charges at spike, wielding the makeshift stake, intending to kill spike, but one of the boys intercepts wood and knocks him off balance.
scene direction: cut to 39 int. basement at buffy's house - night
scene direction: the seal is glowing. buffy fights off the new bringers in the basement. andrew grabs the camcorder to videotape the fight.
scene direction: andrew narrating
andrew: she's like a woman fighting for more than life. she fights like fighting is her life. it's like the air she breathes, and she knows she will win because there is no alternative.
scene direction: buffy knocks out the last bringer
buffy: it's your turn, andrew.
scene direction: buffy pulls out the knife, and walks toward andrew
scene direction: andrew walks away from buffy, around the seal
andrew: so, you figure, what? i, uh...
scene direction: andrew puts down the camcorder
andrew: i stand on the seal, and hold the knife, and command it to stop glowing in tawarick?
scene direction: buffy and andrew are opposite each other across the seal. they are walking in circles as buffy tries to approach andrew, he tries to maintain his distance.
buffy: or we could do this?
andrew: what?
buffy: doesn't really make sense, does it? bringing you here to talk to it. this thing doesn't understand words, it understands blood.
scene direction: andrew nervous
andrew: blood opens it. you don't want to open it. opening it would be bad.
scene direction: buffy flips the knife
buffy: yeah, willow did a little research. turns out, the blood of the person that awoke it—you—different kind of deal. it reverses the whole thing.
andrew: so, how much blood...are you gonna—
buffy: i don't know. maybe not enough to kill you.
scene direction: andrew faces her, but still backs away
andrew: so, this is my redemption at last? i buy back my bruised soul with the blood of my heart. but-but not enough to kill—
scene direction: buffy standing right in front of him now, pointing the knife at him
buffy: stop! stop telling stories. life isn't a story.
scene direction: andrew frightened
andrew: sorry. sorry.
buffy: shut up. you always do this. you make everything into a story so no one's responsible for anything because they're just following a script.
andrew: please don't kill me. warren said jonathan would be ok. i trusted him, and i lost my friend.
scene direction: buffy angrily
buffy: you didn't lose him. you murdered him.
scene direction: andrew softly, sincerely
andrew: i know, but you don't need to kill me. you said we could all get through this.
buffy: i made it up. i'm making it all up. what kind of hero does that make me?
scene direction: andrew shakes his head
andrew: no, you're doing great. really. kudos.
buffy: yeah? well, i don't like having to give a bunch of speeches about how we're all gonna live, because we won't. this isn't some story where good triumphs because good triumphs. good people are going to die! girls. maybe me. probably you. probably right now.
scene direction: andrew shakes his head, frightened
andrew: don't! please! don't, please!
scene direction: buffy pushes him toward the seal; he leans over it, but she's holding the back of his jacket so he doesn't fall. she's pointing the knife at him.
buffy: when your blood pours out, it might save the world. what do you think about that? does it buy it all back? are you redeemed?
scene direction: andrew crying
andrew: no.
buffy: why not?
scene direction: andrew sobbing, his face is tear-streaked
andrew: because i killed him. because i listened to warren, and i pretended i thought it was him, but i knew—i knew it wasn't. and i killed jonathan. and now you're gonna kill me. and i'm scared, and i'm going to die. and this—this is what jonathan felt.
scene direction: as andrew's tears flow, a tear droplet falls from his face onto the seal below. it immediately stops glowing. buffy lets andrew go. he falls to the ground and puts the knife down.
andrew: it stopped.
buffy: didn't want blood. it wanted tears.
scene direction: andrew stands
andrew: thanks.
buffy: sorry, i had to—
andrew: you—you weren't really going to stab me, were you?
buffy: i wasn't going to stab you.
andrew: what if the tears didn't work?
scene direction: buffy walks out of the room. andrew grabs his camcorder and follows her.
scene direction: cut to 40 int. hallway at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: robin and spike are fighting students, but suddenly the students stop fighting back. instead, they just walk away.
robin wood: she got it done.
spike: always has.
robin wood: so far.
scene direction: cut to 41 int. upstairs bathroom at buffy's house - night
scene direction: through the camera lens, show andrew sitting on the closed toilet seat, recording himself as before.
andrew: here's the thing. i killed my best friend. there's a big fight coming, and i don't know what's going to happen. i don't even think i'm going to live through it.
scene direction: andrew looks down
andrew: that's, uh, probably the way it should be. i guess i'm—
scene direction: andrew looks at the camera, sighs, points the remote control, presses a button, and turns it off
scene direction: closing credits.