scene direction: cut to 9 int. flat in england - day
scene direction: resume. giles is talking to robson while a bringer sneaks up behind him, wielding an axe.
giles: i understand. i'll take care of i—
scene direction: one of the robed men sneaks up behind giles wielding a battle-axe. he swings it at giles. giles grabs the shaft of the axe right before the blade touches him. he stands, punches the bringer in the stomach, and takes control of the axe. holding the axe handle with a hand on either end, he knocks the bringer in the chin, sending him backwards into a chair. giles swings the axe at the bringer's neck, chopping off its head.
scene direction: cut to 10 ext. cemetary in sunnydale - night
scene direction: giles is telling his story to the girls as they patrol. buffy, kennedy, amanda and a new slayer in training are with him.
giles: it was, uh, extraordinary good luck, of course. and—and, uh, training—years of training. chao-ahn, keep up. you're new here, chao-ahn, so take note. remember about training. but i honestly feel the largest part of it was instinct. instinct and-and reflexes. there's a sort of wary watchfulness i've developed over the years. it's like another sense—
scene direction: from out of nowhere, someone attacks giles, knocking him to the ground. it's spike.
scene direction: buffy worried
buffy: spike!
scene direction: (simultaneously)
giles: spike: hey!
scene direction: hey!
scene direction: you're not in pain.
scene direction: you're not the first.
giles: what?
spike: anya said you were the first. said you were evil. you're supposed to be all go-through-able.
scene direction: spike stands, walks to buffy's side
scene direction: giles stands
giles: then what the hell did you tackle me for, you berk? what's that supposed to do?
spike: i, uh, i didn't think of that.
giles: more importantly, you just hit me. why didn't your chip go off?
scene direction: spike looks down
spike: yeah, well...
buffy: well, uh, when we were at the initiative...
scene direction: buffy looks at spike
scene direction: spike looks at buffy
spike: there was a choice.
scene direction: buffy looks at giles
buffy: right. either repair the chip, or to remove it.
giles: you had it remov—you removed the chip?
scene direction: buffy smiling, trying to look innocent
buffy: yeah.
spike: had to make a choice.
buffy: it really is ok.
amanda: what's a chip?
kennedy: they removed the chip?
scene direction: chao-ahn speaking chinese
scene direction: subtitles - i don't understand a word any of you are saying.
scene direction: opening credits.
scene change: *** act i ***
scene direction: cut to 11 int. buffy's room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: buffy's sitting at her vanity, putting on large gold hoop earrings. she's wearing a thin v-necked red sweater. giles walks down the hall toward her room and stops at the doorway.
giles: you know this is very dangerous.
buffy: ah, you just heard the horror stories. wear hoops, they'll catch on something, rip your lobe off. lobes flying everywhere.
scene direction: giles rolls eyes
giles: that's not what i'm talking about.
buffy: you mean spike not having a chip. free range spike?
giles: i have to ask—why on earth did you make that decision?
buffy: guess it was instinct, like you were talking about.
giles: i made that up!
scene direction: giles walks into the room
giles: i knew the bringer was there because his shoes squeaked.
scene direction: giles sits on her vanity
giles: buffy, it's crucial that we keep these girls safe. i can't count the dangers—the first, the bringers, random demons, and now spike?
buffy: and the principal.
giles: what?
buffy: oh, nothing much. he was in the school basement, holding a shovel, acting evasive. plus, he's got that whole "too charming to be real" thing going on. i'm looking into it.
scene direction: giles stands
giles: oh, well that sounds very responsible of you. balances out the vampire-on-the-loose issue.
scene direction: buffy stands, walks across the room to fold laundry
buffy: nothing's changed, giles. spike had a chip before, remember? when the first had him kill and sire all those people.
giles: we have no idea if his chip was working then.
scene direction: giles takes off glasses
giles: a new chip might restrain him should the first attempt to activate him again.
scene direction: buffy turns to face giles
buffy: spike has a soul now. that's what's gonna stop him from hurting people.
giles: buffy...
buffy: he can be a good man, giles. i feel it. but he's never gonna get there if we don't give him the chance.
scene direction: buffy walks to her closet to put the clothes away
scene direction: giles walks up to buffy
giles: buffy, i want more for you. your feelings for him are coloring your judgement. i can hear it in your voice.
scene direction: giles buffy sighs
giles: and that way lies a future filled with pain. i don't want that for you.
buffy: we haven't—
scene direction: buffy looks uncomfortable
buffy: things have been different since he came back.
giles: it doesn't matter if you're not physical with each other anymore. there's a connection. you rely on him, he relies on you. that's what's affecting your judgment.
buffy: you think i'm losing sight of the big picture, but i'm not. when spike had that chip, it was like having him in a muzzle. it was wrong. you can't beat evil by doing evil. i know that.
scene direction: buffy walks out of the room
scene direction: giles calling after her, calmly
giles: well, i hope you're right. you're gambling with a lot of lives.
scene direction: cut to 12 ext. home improvement store - day
scene direction: xander's standing around in a crowd of customers watching a green-aproned store employee cut a length of pipe with a huge power tool. he looks around and notices a pretty woman looking at the spools of rope on a display. xander walks over to her, taking off his safety glasses.
xander: hi, can i help? you seem kind of confused.
scene direction: lissa holding a rope, looks at his clothes
lissa: you aren't wearing a green apron.
xander: confused, but sort of randomly observant.
lissa: sorry, i just mean... you don't work here, right?
xander: no. right. just helpful. i'm xander.
lissa: lissa.
scene direction: lissa they shake hands
lissa: and i guess i could use some advice. i can't even figure out if i've got the right kind of rope.
xander: that depends on what you need it for. something like functional around the house, or, you know, recreational.
scene direction: xander lissa raises her eyebrows and grins
xander: by which i mean, for example, boating or mountain climbing—not for tying someone up for sexy, funky fun.
scene direction: xander lissa giggles
xander: in conclusion, rope can be useful in various ways.
lissa: i have a kayak.
xander: again with the random. i like it.
lissa: sorry. i need to store my kayak. so i was thinking maybe i could sorta suspend it from the ceiling in the garage with ropes and a pulley or a winch thing.
xander: not a bad plan. you'll need stronger rope than that. wanna have coffee with me later?
lissa: what?
xander: oh, you're the only one that gets to be random?
scene direction: xander lissa smiles
scene direction: cut to 13 int. principal wood's office at sunnydale high - day
scene direction: while no one is looking, buffy walks into the office labeled "principal. robin m. wood" on it and closes the door behind her. she looks through files on his desk, then looks around the room.
buffy: now, if i were a sign of being evil, where would i be?
scene direction: buffy notices a wall cabinet, and walks up to it. before she can open it, principal wood walks into the office.
principal wood: uh, buffy?
scene direction: buffy turns to face him
buffy: principal wood. it's you.
principal wood: you looking for something?
buffy: file folders. and mechanical pencils. well, i want to write on a file folder with a mechanical pencil.
principal wood: the supply cabinet in the outer office has those things.
buffy: oh, this isn't a supply cabinet? my bad. ok. thanks.
scene direction: buffy starts to walk out
scene direction: principal wood steps in her path
principal wood: hey, buffy...
buffy: yeah?
principal wood: um, what're you doing tonight?
buffy: preparing for tomorrow's counseling sessions.
principal wood: no, really.
buffy: watching a reality show about a millionaire.
principal wood: well, then, i'd, um— i'd like to take you out to dinner, if that's all right with you. i mean, you don't have to. i'm certainly not saying come to dinner if you enjoy having a job.
scene direction: principal wood chuckles then realizes what he said
principal wood: you know, i may have to make up a document saying i didn't just say that and have you sign it.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: sure. i'd be happy to have dinner with you.
principal wood: great. i'll draw up the paperwork.
scene direction: buffy nods and walks out of the office. principal wood closes his office door after her, then takes a bloody handkerchief out of his breast pocket. he unfolds the bloody handkerchief, revealing a knife inside. wiping the blood off the knife, he walks toward the cabinet buffy had been curious about. upon opening it, there's just a standard dry-erase board inside until the principal raises it out of the way to show a hidden compartment behind it where dozens of exotic knives are displayed. he puts the knife he's holding back in it's place and looks over his shoulder toward the door.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act ii ***
scene direction: cut to 14 int. living room at buffy's house - day
scene direction: buffy's sitting on the couch while willow's folding laundry from the laundry basket beside her.
scene direction: willow folding socks
willow: so, he asked you out to dinner?
buffy: yeah. isn't that weird? i mean, he's a principal. he's a young, hot principal with earrings, but he's a principal. why do you think he asked me out? i mean, he could be interested, right?
willow: yeah, sure. you're a frisky vixen.
buffy: or, it could be work-related. maybe i'm getting promoted for doing such a good job.
scene direction: willow laughs, then notices buffy's hurt look and gets serious
willow: oh, right, that—that makes sense too.
buffy: or, maybe he knows that i suspect he's up to something, and he's taking me out to kill me.
scene direction: willow shrugs
willow: well, you'll have to dress for the ambiguity.
buffy: you know, it's not even that he's acting that suspicious. it's just—there he is. on the hell mouth. all day, every day. that's got to be like being showered with evil. only from underneath.
willow: not really a shower.
buffy: a bidet. like a bidet of evil.
willow: buff, if he's really interested,
scene direction: willow smiles
willow: are you interested back?
scene direction: buffy blushes
buffy: i don't know. he's good-looking, and he's—he's solid, he's smart, he's normal. so, not the wicked energy, which is nice 'cause i don't want to only be attracted to wicked energy. or what if he is wicked, in which case, is that why i'm attracted to him?
willow: i'm gonna wait for that sentence to come around again before i jump on.
scene direction: buffy grins
buffy: you know what? yeah, i mean i think i like him. and he'd be good for me.
scene direction: willow nods
willow: right. help you move on.
scene direction: buffy defensively
buffy: why does everybody in this house think i'm still in love with spike?
willow: no, i-i meant move on from this imposed super-self-reliance. let somebody get close.
buffy: oh.
scene direction: buffy the front door opens
buffy: hey, someone's here.
scene direction: xander comes in through the front door, giddy
xander: guys, guess what happened.
scene direction: willow grins
willow: buffy got a date!
scene direction: xander excited
xander: no, i did.
scene direction: xander looks at buffy, frowning
xander: fine. way to steal my thunder.
buffy: sorry. if it makes you feel better, it's principal wood, and i think he's aligned with the first.
xander: also, like ten years older than you, right?
scene direction: willow teasing
willow: which is like 100 years younger than your type!
buffy: yay. someone who doesn't remember the industrial revolution.
willow: i think they're gonna end up making out.
scene direction: willow mocking, holds a pair of socks to her chest lovingly
willow: "oh, principal wood," she'll gasp, "i love your lack of wicked energy."
scene direction: buffy throws a pair of socks at willow
buffy: watch it, or i'm gonna make you talk about your new girlfriend who you hold hands with under the dinner table and think we don't notice.
willow: how 'bout yours, xander. is she evil?
xander: well, she's interested in me, so there's a good chance, but i'm hoping for the best. we're going for coffee. she has a kayak—
scene direction: giles and chao-ahn come through the front door, loaded with overflowing shopping bags.
scene direction: giles putting down the shopping bags
giles: dear lord, i hate that mall. the shop assistants are rude. and everything in the food court is sticky.
willow: looks like you found her some stuff.
giles: oh, hello. yes.
xander: that's gotta be rough. getting just like pulled out of your home, being told you're a potential slayer, not being able to bring anything.
giles: yes, and the language barrier is formidable. i was concerned that my mandarin is a little thin, but as it turns out, she speaks cantonese, which is thinner. but we muddled through, and, as i suspected, ice cream is a universal language.
scene direction: chao-ahn speaking chinese
subtitle: like many from asia, i am lactose intolerant. i'm very uncomfortable.
scene direction: buffy smiling, nodding, talking through her closed teeth
buffy: what'd she say?
giles: she's grateful to be in the land of plenty.
scene direction: giles to chao-ahn, slowly
giles: let's, um, go and put away your new clothes.
scene direction: giles picks up bags and walks upstairs; chao-ahn nods and follows
buffy: hey, will, do you think you can do a computer check on principal wood. see if you can find anything out.
willow: yeah, sure. want me to check your girl out while i'm at it, xand?
xander: nope. i'm going in blind. i'm gonna be an optimist about this. why go looking for trouble? if it's gonna find you, it's gonna find you.
scene direction: cut to 15 int. kitchen at buffy's house - day
scene direction: andrew's standing by the new microwave that's on the counter, reading the manual, holding a highlighter pen.
scene direction: andrew reading the cover page
andrew: "getting the most out of your new microwave."
scene direction: andrew nods
andrew: hm. nice.
scene direction: andrew opens the manual, reading
andrew: "clock comma setting the, page 3."
scene direction: andrew leans the manual on the countertop to highlight text in it
first [jonathan]: you don't need a manual, it's intuitive.
scene direction: first [jonathan] andrew notices jonathan/first and backs away into the corner
first [jonathan]: there's a button marked "clock set" for pity's sake. what kind of a nerd are you?
scene direction: first [jonathan] scoffs
first [jonathan]: no wonder you crashed your jet pack.
andrew: no, get thee behind me.
scene direction: andrew takes a cross out of his jeans pocket
andrew: i rebuke thee.
scene direction: andrew holds out the cross
andrew: take that, the first!
scene direction: first [jonathan] rolls his eyes
first [jonathan]: look, you monkey.
scene direction: first [jonathan] walks up to andrew, sticks out his hand and passes through the cross
first [jonathan]: ooh. ahh. it burns as it ineffectually passes through me.
scene direction: first [jonathan] puts his hand at his side
first [jonathan]: i'm not corporeal, remember. also, not a vampire, so—a cross?
scene direction: andrew puts the cross on the counter
andrew: what do you want from me, jonathan slash the first?
first [jonathan]: i have an assignment for you.
andrew: um, i follow buffy's orders now. i'm redeeming myself for... killing you—i mean, for... killing jonathan.
first [jonathan]: really, why?
scene direction: first [jonathan] laughs
first [jonathan]: so you can earn a spot on her little pep squad? you think she'll ever let you in? you're a murderer.
scene direction: andrew nods
andrew: confidentially, a lot of her people are murderers. anya and willow and spike.
first [jonathan]: interesting. and you're the only one she makes seek redemption. does that seem fair to you?
scene direction: andrew squirms in place
andrew: i guess not.
first [jonathan]: you know we're headed toward a fight, don't you?
andrew: yeah.
first [jonathan]: what do you think the world's gonna be like after that? newsflash. there's not going to be a slayer gang anymore. but there is going to be evil. and as long as there is evil, i live. and as long as i live, you can dwell at my side.
andrew: that sounds nice.
first [jonathan]: your assignment won't be hard. they're just little girls.
andrew: you want me to hurt the girls?
first [jonathan]: uh, no, not all of them. not dawn, not anya, not willow, and not your friend buffy. just the potential slayers.
andrew: that's—that's horrible.
scene direction: andrew points
andrew: i'm-i'm gonna scream and—and get buffy in here.
first [jonathan]: she can't see me, and i'm gonna keep talking until you hear what i have to say, so listen up, ok? the girls must die.
scene direction: andrew breathes deeply
andrew: i could never do that. all those girls, a-all that blood—i-i didn't like the stabbing before.
first [jonathan]: you don't have to stab. this'll be easy. andrew, i want you to think. willow brought something to this house—something good, something you can use.
scene direction: andrew thinks for a moment, then gestures spokes-model-style
andrew: the new microwave?
scene direction: first [jonathan] blinks deliberately, then glares
first [jonathan]: the gun. i want you to think hard. where did they put the gun?
andrew: hmm.
scene direction: cut to 16 int. upstairs bathroom at buffy's house - day
scene direction: anya's cleaning a spot on a blouse while buffy waits wearing jeans and a lace camisole.
anya: i don't think it's really a date. that's what i think.
scene direction: anya scrubbing the shirt
buffy: well, it is unclear. that's why i chose a top that says, you know, i'm comfortable in a stodgy office or a swinging casual setting—or killing you, you know, if you're a demon.
anya: it also says i sometimes get blood on my shoulder.
scene direction: anya looks at the shirt again
anya: or it might be pizza.
scene direction: anya hands the shirt to buffy
anya: i don't think i can fix it.
buffy: thanks for trying.
anya: and i wasn't talking about your date anyway. i was talking about this sham date of xander's. i think it's part of a plan to make me jealous.
scene direction: buffy shakes her head
buffy: well, it's not working.
anya: are you nuts? of course it's working. observe my-my bitter ranting. hear the shrill edge of hysteria in my voice.
buffy: um, i should really go find something else to wear.
scene direction: buffy walks out of the room
anya: fine, go. leave me here to stew in my impotent rage.
scene direction: anya buffy stops, turns to look at anya
anya: i'm also gonna pee,
scene direction: anya nods
anya: so you should probably go.
scene direction: anya shrugs
scene direction: cut to 17 int. upstairs hallway at buffy's house - day
scene direction: buffy steps out of the bathroom into the hallway to find spike walking down the hall. they are face to face. buffy stops in her tracks as soon as she sees him and tries to cover herself with the stained blouse.
spike: you look nice.
buffy: oh, thanks.
scene direction: buffy looks down at her camisole
buffy: uh, traditionally, one wears something over this.
spike: heard you got a date.
scene direction: buffy nervous
buffy: well, it's unclear. i mean, i have this whole theory about a promotion. or he's evil.
spike: buffy, i'm all right.
buffy: you don't have to—
spike: what? be noble? i'm not. really, i'm all right. think i still dream of a crypt for two with a white picket fence? my eyes are clear.
buffy: good. i'm glad. thank you.
spike: never much cared for picket fences, anyway. bloody dangerous.
buffy: you should try this too. the going out thing, i mean. i mean, there's that girl you brought to anya and xander's not-a-wedding.
spike: oh, yeah, right. there's always girls who like the look—bad boy, you know.
scene direction: spike nods
spike: does it for some of them.
buffy: yeah, i can see that. i should go. i don't wanna be late.
scene direction: buffy walks down the hall past spike.
scene direction: cut to 18 int. coffee shop - night
scene direction: xander's sitting alone at a table, staring at the clock on the wall; it reads 8 30. xander sighs to himself for a moment, then lissa walks in.
xander: lissa! hi.
scene direction: xander stands
xander: i was afraid you weren't coming.
lissa: you said 8:30, right? did you think i was going to stand you up?
scene direction: lissa sits
scene direction: xander sits
xander: well, it would be kind of karmic.
lissa: what?
xander: forget it. i'm just glad you're here. you're gonna love the coffee. got myself a redeye—it's black coffee with a shot of espresso.
scene direction: xander lissa grabs his mug to inspect it, xander tries unsuccessfully to stop her
xander: it's kinda rough if you're not used to that sort of thing—
scene direction: lissa tastes xander's drink
lissa: it's hot cocoa.
xander: well, sometimes i don't sleep too good. i just lost macho points, didn't i?
scene direction: lissa shrugs
lissa: hey, who wants macho? i like that you like hot cocoa.
scene direction: lissa to waiter
lissa: redeye, please.
scene direction: lissa shrugs
lissa: sounded good.
scene direction: cut to 19 int. dining room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: willow's sitting at the dining room table, using her laptop, with dawn and amanda on either side of her and kennedy behind her looking on.
dawn: nothing? no records or certificates? college transcripts?
amanda: looks like the only stuff in the system about principal robin wood is super-recent. like, since he moved to sunnydale.
willow: i've googled 'til i just can't google no more. he's not in there.
kennedy: well, that's suspicious.
scene direction: anya storms into the dining room holding a stack of papers. giles follows.
giles: anya, calm down. they're educational—
scene direction: willow anya hands the papers to willow
willow: what's this?
scene direction: willow flips through the papers. they are crude stick-figure drawings in black and red marker depicting "bringer" on one, "vampire" on another, and "the slayer (buffy)" as well. there are more, but we get the idea. each one shows a gruesome, bloody mess as the creature shown is drawn killing someone or something.
anya: giles made them for chao-ahn, and now she's locked herself in the bathroom. there's other girls upstairs, and they're starting to complain.
giles: those are flashcards. i-i made them to facilitate her training. chao-ahn never had a watcher. the language problem—
willow: you showed her these?
giles: i wanted her to understand the seriousness of her situation.
dawn: holy crap!
scene direction: dawn holds up one of the pages labeled "turok-han" that shows the creature standing over a girl that's been ripped in half along her waistline, spilling a huge pool of blood everywhere.
giles: perhaps i'll rethink the approach.
willow: in the meanwhile, wanna help us get researchy? we're trying to invade buffy's date's privacy.
giles: buffy has a date?
scene direction: anya rolls her eyes
anya: yes... didn't you hear? everybody has a date. buffy has a date. willow's been completely making out with this girl—
scene direction: kennedy stands, pouts
kennedy: hey!
anya: xander's out with some hardware-store-whore. it's date fest 2003.
scene direction: anya sits
willow: actually, buffy's investigating principal wood. it's not a date.
giles: really.
willow: might be a date.
giles: for god's sake! how can anyone think about their social life? we are about to fight the original primal evil. these girls are in mortal danger. didn't you see the flashcards? this isn't right.
scene direction: from behind the french doors, andrew is stealthily watching them talk in the dining room.
scene direction: cut to 20 ext. alley in sunnydale - night
scene direction: buffy and principal wood are walking down a dark alley side by side. buffy looks around, uncomfortable.
buffy: this isn't right.
scene direction: buffy stops walking
principal wood: i know it doesn't look promising, but i swear this place is great. it's the best kept secret in town. it's just right down this way.
scene direction: principal wood they start walking again
buffy: well, it is one of the nicer dark alleys.
principal wood: i promise you, it's just a little bit further.
buffy: ok...: as they walk down the alley, a vampire steps out in front of them. then two more step up behind them, growling. buffy starts fighting them immediately. there's a horde of them now. she manages to punch them and kick them away from her one by one until she has opportunity to get her stake out of her purse. she stakes one, then another, then another.
scene direction: buffy to the principal
buffy: you set me up, you son of a—
scene direction: buffy realizes that principal wood is also fighting off vampires. without her help.
scene direction: buffy confused
buffy: what?
scene direction: principal wood overpowers one of the vampires and stakes him. then knocks the last one to the ground, staking him too. he flips the stake in his hand, then returns it to his belt holster as he walks back to buffy.
scene direction: principal wood offers her a hand to help her stand
principal wood: i guess we should talk.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act iii ***
scene direction: cut to 21 ext. alley in sunnydale - night
scene direction: resume. buffy's staring at principal wood.
principal wood: the restaurant's right there.
scene direction: principal wood gestures to the door
scene direction: buffy walks with him into the restaurant.
scene direction: cut to 22 int. coffee shop - night
scene direction: lissa and xander are sitting at a table talking.
lissa: and you still have to see her, like, everyday?
xander: yeah, but i guess that's good.
lissa: how is that a good thing? i mean, it seems like she never let you forget what happened.
xander: well, it's on her mind a lot right now because our anniversary's coming up—i mean, it would have been our anniversary. and maybe i shouldn't be allowed to forget it. i did—it was a bad thing, and it hurt her real bad.
lissa: and if you'd gone ahead and married her, even though you had doubts, that would've been better?
xander: i guess not.
lissa: sounds to me like, in the long run, you're both better off.
scene direction: lissa flirtatiously
lissa: i know it turned out good for me, and that's what really matters, right?
scene direction: xander laughs, nods, looks into her eyes
xander: i should have taken you on a nicer date than this.
scene direction: lissa smiling sexily
lissa: well, i can think of something fun to do.
scene direction: cut to 23 int. romantic french restaurant - night
scene direction: buffy and principal wood are sitting across from each other at a small table in a very elegant, romantic restaurant. principal wood is talking to the waitress, ordering from the menu.
scene direction: principal wood to waitress
principal wood: thank you.
buffy: this place is nice. how the hell did you do that?
scene direction: principal wood chuckles
principal wood: i've had a little practice. never took on two at once before, but i have taken out a vamp here or there. and some demons.
buffy: so, you're freelance?
principal wood: hm... freelance—
scene direction: principal wood nods
principal wood: i guess that's a good way to put it.
buffy: and you know who i am?
principal wood: you're the slayer.
buffy: right. ok, um, so i'm guessing that you don't work in an office 15 feet above the hell mouth because you enjoy educational administration?
principal wood: well, i actually do enjoy the work, but yeah. yeah, you're right. i maneuvered myself into that school, that office—just like i maneuvered you there. the hell mouth draws the bad things in close, and now we're headed for something big, buffy. really big, and i need to be here when it happens. i want to help.
buffy: so, y-you didn't hire me for my counseling skills?
scene direction: principal wood laughs heartily, then sees buffy's hurt look; then straight-faced
principal wood: they're valuable too.
buffy: wh-why didn't you tell me about you?
principal wood: i wasn't sure about things yet.
buffy: y-you didn't think you could trust me?
principal wood: no, no. no, i wasn't sure i was ready yet—ready to jump into this fight.
buffy: and now you are?
principal wood: well, now the fight is starting—or starting to start—and i don't have time to worry anymore. i have to do something.
buffy: so, you knew who i was before you even came here.
principal wood: yes.
buffy: how? how do you know about slayers?
principal wood: right.
scene direction: principal wood nods
principal wood: ok. see, when i was a little boy, my mother was one. the one, actually—the slayer.
buffy: your mother—
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: wow, i didn't know that any slayers had children.
principal wood: well, i don't know of any others. she was killed when i was four. i still remember her, but it's a little...fuzzy? you know?
scene direction: buffy nervously
buffy: um, something got her... a demon—?
principal wood: a vampire. oh, man, i went through this whole "avenging son" phase in my twenties, but i never found him. so, now i just dust as many of them as i can find. i figure, eventually i'll get him. that's probably why we got jumped outside. i'm not very popular with the bumpy-foreheaded crowd, and i bet you aren't either.
scene direction: buffy shakes head
buffy: no. not most of them. um, so, do you have any slayer powers?
scene direction: buffy giggles
buffy: i'm sorry, i—i'm just so floored. i-i have no idea what to ask.
principal wood: no, i don't have powers. no super-strength or mythic responsibilities. i'm just a guy with a few skills 'cause her watcher took me in and raised me.
buffy: so, you decided to tell me?
principal wood: that's right.
buffy: in a darkened, little romantic french restaurant?
principal wood: um, yeah..
scene direction: principal wood nods
principal wood: yeah, i'm not really sure how that happened, but yeah.
scene direction: cut to 24 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: jonathan/first is standing in the middle of the room, talking to someone.
first [jonathan]: did you find the gun?
scene direction: he's talking to andrew, who steps forward into view holding a brown paper bag folded over neatly at the top.
andrew: yes, it was in buffy's underwear drawer. she has nice things.
first [jonathan]: show me.
andrew: well, i didn't take 'em, but there were thongs and regular underpants—
scene direction: first [jonathan] annoyed
first [jonathan]: show me the gun.
andrew: oh.
scene direction: andrew opens paper bag and holds it out toward jonathan/first
andrew: here.
scene direction: andrew jonathan/first looks in the bag to see the gun at the bottom
andrew: willow tried shooting kennedy with that.
first [jonathan]: great. there's gonna be panic and fleeing when you start firing, so you're gonna have to get them trapped someplace like the basement.
andrew: and we're killing them because...?
first [jonathan]: because they're the future of the slayer line. when they're gone, the line is gone.
andrew: uh-huh, uh-huh. um, so why not have spike do it? he's the one with the trigger.
first [jonathan]: it's not time for him yet. you can wait for the next time they're training in the basement, but don't rely on a locked door to keep them in. you'll need more.
scene direction: andrew nods
andrew: ok.
scene direction: andrew walks nervously toward the desk, leans against it
andrew: say, um, do you have any weaknesses i should know about if i'm gonna work for you, like, uh, kryptonite or allergies?
first [jonathan]: what are you asking?
andrew: oh, nothing, um...
scene direction: andrew nervously plays with items on the desk
andrew: are you—are you made out of the evil impulses of humans, so if everyone was unconscious at the same time, you would fade away?
first [jonathan]: you're asking a lot of questions.
andrew: yes, well, i, uh, because... 'cause i'm evil, and i want to do the best i can at that, so i want to...
scene direction: andrew clears throat
andrew: know stuff like when—when do we kill buffy?
first [jonathan]: are you wearing a wire?
scene direction: cut to 25 int. dining room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: willow's sitting at the table wearing headphones. dawn, kennedy and amanda are sitting at the table with her. suddenly willow winces and takes the headphones off too quickly.
kennedy: wh—what's going on?
scene direction: willow has a panic-stricken look on her face.
scene direction: cut to 26 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: andrew stares nervously at jonathan/first.
scene direction: first [jonathan] walks toward andrew
first [jonathan]: you think you can trick the first? you think you could squirm free? i hold you, andrew. i made you do this...
scene direction: jonathan/first presses the palms of his hands against his shirt. they make a squishy sound. he pulls his hands away palm-up to show andrew they are smeared with congealing blood.
scene direction: first [jonathan] softly
first [jonathan]: jonathan suffered. he was your friend, and he trusted you, and now he spends eternity in pain because of what you did.
andrew: no. what's happening to you?
scene direction: jonathan/first's body is deteriorating in front of andrew's eyes as it progresses slowly through the stages of decay. the skin is glistening and turning a greenish-brown color.
first [jonathan]: this is what you did to him. took away everything he was and left him like this. you started down a road with that action. you have to keep going.
andrew: stop looking like jonathan. you're not him. you're the first, and you're trying to get me to shoot innocent girls, but i won't do it. i'm good now. when the fight is over, i'm gonna pay for killing jonathan.
scene direction: first [jonathan] shakes his head
first [jonathan]: you're gonna pay for more than that. do you know why? because the biggest, baddest first evil in the world's angry with you.
scene direction: cut to 27 int. dining room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: willow's still listening in on andrew's conversation with the first, wearing her headphones again.
scene direction: first [jonathan] o.s.:  echoy
first [jonathan] o.s.: : you think this was smart?
scene direction: willow gasps, picks up her pen and paper
willow: wait. i'm hearing something.
first [jonathan] o.s.: you think you can trick me, women?
scene direction: kennedy stands, looks around nervously, takes off willow's headphones
kennedy: it's not in the headphones. it's out here.
first [jonathan] o.s.: you only hear what i want you to hear. you only see what i want you to see.
scene direction: jonathan/first appears behind amanda in a flash of light. his body is very decayed now, glistening and purplish with one side of his face rotting faster where the flesh is opened and the eye is white. amanda screams and the other girls back away, frightened.
first [jonathan]: so many dead girls. there'll be so many.
scene direction: first [jonathan] disappears in a flash of light
scene direction: cut to 28 int. unknown - night
scene direction: xander's looking down at someone, talking, wearing no shirt.
xander: i knew it.
scene direction: pan out to show he's in the basement of sunnydale high, tied to the wheel that spike was hung on when he was drained to open the seal of danthazar. lissa is standing near the pulley.
xander: see? i knew it.
lissa: thanks for your help selecting the ropes. the one i picked wasn't strong enough.
xander: yeah, that would've been bad. listen, is this because i'm friends with buffy?
lissa: who's buffy?
xander: the slayer.
lissa: you know the slayer?
scene direction: xander lissa starts pulling on the rope, lifting the wheel xander's attached to into the air
xander: this can't just happen. it can't just keep happening that demon women find me attractive. there's gotta be a reason.
lissa: you just seem like a nice guy, that's all. and i wanted to get to know you.
xander: and kill me?
lissa: sure.
scene direction: lissa ties off the rope
lissa: do the ropes hurt?
xander: yes.
scene direction: lissa smiles
lissa: good.
scene direction: cut to 29 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: the gang's gathered in the living room for a post-first-encounter pow-wow. dawn, andrew, giles, anya, willow, kennedy, amanda, and spike are there.
scene direction: willow with kennedy sitting on the chair, leaning over willow's shoulder
willow: so, we're thinking it didn't go too well.
scene direction: dawn to andrew, removing the tape that held the wire to his chest
dawn: you should've let me do this fast.
scene direction: andrew wincing
andrew: no, no, no. i hate that. ow.
spike: you tried to recall the ultimate evil? why? in a complex effort to royally piss it off?
kennedy: guess we succeeded pretty good, huh?
andrew: god, i never should have gone in wired.
scene direction: andrew whiny
andrew: redemption is hard.
giles: getting back to spike's question, why did you try to recall it?
andrew: ooh!
willow: to study it. to see if we could figure something out from what it was saying. because, guys, we have to face it, we know nothing about the first.
andrew: owie! ow ow!
anya: well, we know not to record it. that's something.
spike: why did it appear to this one, then?
scene direction: spike gestures to andrew
spike: i thought it was supposed to be pulling my strings.
andrew: it said it wasn't time for you yet.
scene direction: andrew dawn pulls off the last piece of tape
andrew: ow. i'm frightened. and my chest hurts where the tape was.
scene direction: andrew sits down
dawn: it's ok, andrew. you did good. you stood up to it. that's really amazing.
andrew: thank you. you're a peach.
anya: yeah. what did it want you to do, anyway?
andrew: shoot all the girls.
scene direction: dawn worried
dawn: shoot girls?
andrew: not you, just the potentials.
scene direction: dawn relieved
dawn: oh, well that's something, anyway.
scene direction: dawn covering for her relief, looks around, sounding concerned again
dawn: something tragic.
giles: this proves my point. this time is crucial. we should be circling the wagons instead of doing things like going out on dates when—when gunplay is imminent. willow, call buffy. get her back here. we need to dispose of the gun and-and figure out our next move.
spike: i'll go get her.
willow: i'll call.
scene direction: willow a cell-phone rings in the background
amanda: bet that's her. sometimes you're thinking about calling someone—
scene direction: willow looking at her phone
willow: no, it's a text message.
scene direction: willow reading
willow: oh, it's from xander. it's one of our signals.
amanda: signals?
willow: yeah, the system we set up a while back. like codes. uh, this one's either "i just got lucky, don't call me for a while" or "my date's a demon who's trying to kill me."
kennedy: you don't remember which?
willow: it was a long time ago.
dawn: well, if we play the percentages...
giles: something's eating xander's head.
anya: say, that's gratifying.
andrew: buffy will know what to do.
spike: i'll go get her.
scene direction: spike starts to go
willow: that's ok.
scene direction: willow spike sighs
willow: we don't even know where she went.
scene direction: willow a cell phone rings in the background, zoom in on buffy's cell phone that says "willow calling." willow picks up buffy's phone from the table beside her.
willow: that's not good.
spike: i'll go get buffy. i can probably still track her scent. she'll be worried about the boy.
scene direction: spike walks out the door
scene direction: cut to 30 int. romantic french restaurant - night
scene direction: buffy and principal wood are on the dessert course now. buffy's eating something that gives her great delight.
buffy: oh, my god! mmm. oh, my god. that might be the best thing i've ever had in my mouth.
principal wood: isn't it good? they soak the pears in brandy. here, you need a bite with sauce.
scene direction: principal wood he feeds a bite to buffy
scene direction: buffy looks up while being hand-fed by the principal, sees spike
buffy: mm. what are you doing here?
scene direction: principal wood to buffy
principal wood: is there a problem?
spike: it's xander.
scene direction: buffy's expression melts into one of worry.
scene direction: cut to 31 int. basement at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: xander's suspended from the ceiling, tied to a wheel. lissa's standing below him.
xander: look, i know what happens if that seal down there gets all excited. i don't think you understand what you're getting yourself into.
lissa: the seal opens, and a vicious feral vampire creature comes out.
xander: well, then you do understand. but, uh, what makes you think that's, like, a good idea?
lissa: the end is coming. the final fight, and everyone is hearing the drumbeat. it's telling us to pick our partners, align ourselves with the good or the evil.
scene direction: lissa reaches behind her to grab a long, thin knife. when she turns back to face xander, her eyes have changed to a yellow lizard-eyed look. she stabs xander in the belly.
xander: aaah!
scene direction: xander blood flows from his wound down the knife onto the seal below
lissa: couldn't have done it without you, xander. thanks for the great date.
scene change: fade to black.
scene change: *** act iv ***
scene direction: cut to 32 int. principal wood's car - night
scene direction: principal wood is driving the car, with buffy as passenger and spike in the back seat. buffy's very tense and uncomfortable looking, and spike's crouched down in the corner of the back seat.
buffy: you sure he's in the high school?
spike: willow did a locator spell. usual stuff.
principal wood: i'm not surprised. that school's at the center of everything.
scene direction: buffy sighs
buffy: how much longer 'til we get there?
principal wood: ten minutes.
scene direction: principal wood principal wood watches the rear view mirror suspiciously
principal wood: so, how do you two know each other?
scene direction: buffy answering too fast
buffy: he works with me. uh, you know, in the struggle against evil.
principal wood: mm. cool.
scene direction: cut to 33 int. basement at sunnydale high - night
scene direction: buffy bursts into the room where xander's strung up.
buffy: xander!
scene direction: buffy sees xander hanging from the ceiling, but runs toward lissa first, punching her and disarming her by knocking the knife from her hand.
xander: buffy!
scene direction: buffy and lissa are fighting when spike enters the room. lissa starts whaling on spike. she kicks buffy away, knocking her to the ground. she pushes spike down and starts strangling him, bringing forth spike's vampire facade. principal wood sees spike's face change.
principal wood: he's a vampire.
xander: oh, god! hurry!
scene direction: principal wood stops staring at spike and goes to aid xander, cutting the ropes that hold his hands to the wheel, but the seal is already beginning to open. across the room, buffy knocks lissa off of spike. a turok-han is reaching out of the seal as it opens, but principal wood escapes its grasp as he finally gets xander down from the wheel. the seal slams shut, cutting off the arm of the turok-han that was reaching out. principal wood sets xander down against a wall.
scene direction: buffy and lissa are still fighting, struggling over possession of a sword. lissa knocks buffy across the room, but buffy holds on to the sword. spike engages in fighting lissa, but he's getting his butt kicked. buffy pulls lissa away from spike and cuts off lissa's head with the sword. as her head is separated from her body, lissa's true form is revealed as a gruesome pinkish creature with hairy shoulders and stitches all over its head and nasty black shark teeth on its lipless jaws.
scene direction: buffy to spike
buffy: hey.
scene direction: buffy goes to spike's side to make sure he's all right. she holds spike's hand, but sees principal wood staring at them as she comforts him. she stands and goes to xander. principal wood and spike follow.
principal wood: i think your friend's gonna be ok.
buffy: hey, xand. i'm here.
scene direction: xander grimacing
xander: so, how's your date going?
scene direction: buffy looks at principal wood, who's staring at spike. spike glances from buffy to wood.
scene direction: cut to 34 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: dawn's staring out the front door. anya's pacing. willow and andrew are sitting on the couch.
anya: where are they? it's after 2. i can't believe buffy hasn't brought him home yet. his slut ate him up.
willow: his slut didn't eat him up. and besides, i thought you were all angry at him.
anya: my feelings are changeable but intense.
andrew: i understand your fear, anya. i know fear myself 'cause, you know, i, um, i enraged that primal force.
scene direction: giles walks into the room, holding a glass of milk
giles: they're not back yet?
scene direction: anya to giles
anya: i'm worried. i-i think we should go find them. xander could be injured or trapped or eaten up.
scene direction: giles looks at his watch
giles: it is late. perhaps a little reconnaissance might be helpful.
scene direction: chao-ahn comes downstairs, worried, wearing a red silk robe. speaking chinese
subtitle: why is everyone up? are the flashcard monsters attacking?
scene direction: giles to the others
giles: she says she can't sleep.
scene direction: giles to chao-ahn
giles: um, i made myself some warm milk. you can have it.
scene direction: chao-ahn speaking chinese angrily
subtitle: you're trying to kill me!
scene direction: chao-ahn walks back upstairs.
giles: she's shy.
scene direction: dawn looking out the front door
dawn: they're back! oh, here they come.
scene direction: anya goes to front door
anya: xander all right?
dawn: looks ok.
anya: damn him!
scene direction: buffy leads xander into the house. he's got his shirt wrapped around his waist as a surrogate bandage. spike follows them into the house.
willow: what happened?
xander: what do you think happened? another demon woman was attracted to me.
scene direction: xander anya rolls her eyes
xander: i'm going gay. i've decided i'm turning gay. willow, gay me up. come on, let's gay.
scene direction: willow softly, a little embarassed
willow: what?
xander: you heard me. just tell me what to do. i'm mentally undressing scott bakula right now. that's a start, isn't it?
scene direction: andrew wistfully
andrew: captain archer...
scene direction: andrew nods
xander: come on, let's get this gay show on the gay road. help me out here.
scene direction: buffy smiles
buffy: what if you just start attracting male demons?
scene direction: dawn giggles
dawn: clem always liked you.
scene direction: anya pouting
anya: it would serve you right.
giles: children, enough.
xander: i'd need some stylish new clothes.
giles: enough! have you learned nothing from tonight's assorted chaos? there isn't time for fun and games and quips about orientation.
scene direction: giles holds up flashcards
giles: these—these aren't a joke.
scene direction: giles flips through the cards
giles: this—this happens. girls are going to die. we may die. it's time to get serious.
scene direction: giles walks out of the room
scene direction: cut to 35 int. living room at buffy's house - night
scene direction: buffy's sitting on the couch alone in the living room. spike walks in and sits next to her.
spike: did anybody tell you about what happened around here tonight?
buffy: willow did. the first is back in the mix.
spike: it, uh, it talked to the little boy. said it wasn't time for me yet. i should move out. leave town before it is time for me.
buffy: no, you have to stay.
spike: you've got another demon fighter now.
buffy: that's not why i need you here.
spike: is that right? why's that then?
buffy: 'cause i'm not ready for you to not be here.
scene direction: spike looks at her a moment
spike: and the principal? how's he fit in?
scene direction: spike buffy looks at him a moment, then spike looks away
scene direction: cut to 36 int. bathroom at principal wood's place - night
scene direction: principal wood is bent over the sink, rinsing out his mouth as he finishes brushing his teeth. he stands upright to look in the mirror, only to see a black woman with a 1970's afro hairstyle standing behind him smiling.
first [nikki]: you look good.
principal wood: you're not my mother.
first [nikki]: i give you a compliment, and you don't say thank you? did i raise you that way?
principal wood: you didn't raise me at all.
first [nikki]: well, i was dead.
scene direction: principal wood turns to face her, then walks straight through her. at the door to the bathroom, he stops and turns to face her again.
scene direction: principal wood crosses his arms
principal wood: so, you're the first. why are you here? why now?
first [nikki]: 'cause you've been coming up in the world—taking the demons out. it makes a mother proud.
principal wood: yeah?
scene direction: principal wood steps forward
principal wood: well, think how pleased she'll be when i help take you out. until it's time for that, i've got no use for you.
scene direction: principal wood turns to walk away
first [nikki]: would you like to know who killed me?
scene direction: first [nikki] principal wood stops in his tracks
first [nikki]: i know you went looking for him.
scene direction: principal wood turns to face her
principal wood: you don't know anything.
first [nikki]: is that right? well, you can check it out after i tell you. check the timing. re-read what the witnesses said, and the people in the subway station—
principal wood: who is it?
first [nikki]: you met him. you know him. you fought at his side.
principal wood: spike.
scene direction: first [nikki] smiles
first [nikki]: now, what do you say?
scene direction: principal wood looks down
principal wood: thank you.
scene direction: closing credits.