scene direction: cut to 7 Int. Pyramidal Tomb - Night
scene direction: Resume. Angel and Buffy are kissing inside the tomb as Spike looks on from the shadows.
scene direction: Angel pulls back from the kiss
Angel: Well, I guess that qualifies as "happy to see me."
scene direction: Buffy looks into Angel's eyes, smiling
Buffy: Angel, what are you doing—
scene direction: Buffy shakes her head
Buffy: Don't even. I just want to bask.
scene direction: Buffy looks into Angel's eyes, smiling, for a few seconds, then snaps out of it
Buffy: OK, I'm basked. What are you doing here?
Angel: Not saving the damsel in distress, that's for sure.
Buffy: Oh, you know me.
scene direction: Buffy picks up scythe
Buffy: Not much with the damseling.
Angel: Got your share of distress, though.
scene direction: Angel walks to the wall
Buffy: You heard?
scene direction: Angel picks up a file folder from a bench by the wall
Angel: I got coverage on the whole thing. It's very gripping. It needs a third act.
scene direction: Buffy shakes her head at him
Buffy: You have to leave L.A.
Angel: It's the First, right? The First evil. The power that tried to convince me to kill myself.
Buffy: Yeah. It's gotten a little more ambitious since then. It's raising an army.
Angel: Yeah, well, it failed once, and I'm here to tell you—
scene direction: Caleb stands up behind Angel and knocks Angel down by hitting him with a cat statue, sending him across the floor. Caleb walks up to Buffy, black blood streaming from his eyes and nose.
Caleb: Are you ready to finish this, bitch?!
scene direction: Opening Credits.
scene change: *** ACT I ***
scene direction: cut to 8 Int. Pyramidal Tomb - Night
scene direction: Resume. Caleb, who's still holding his cat statue, has just confronted Buffy in the tomb after having knocked Angel out.
scene direction: Caleb swings the cat statue at Buffy, but she blocks with the scythe and then falls to the ground. She swings at him with the scythe, but he blocks with the cat statue. Caleb knocks Buffy to the ground, then throws the cat statue at Buffy. Buffy stands, holding the scythe.
scene direction: Buffy breathing hard
Buffy: OK...how many times do I have to kill you? Ballpark figure.
Caleb: You understand nothing.
scene direction: Buffy swings at Caleb, but he grabs the scythe, holding it still, and punches Buffy in the face twice. He lifts Buffy in the air, pressing her back against the low ceiling. Buffy struggles, and Caleb finally lets her fall to the floor. He walks up to her slowly, then picks her up by her lapels.
scene direction: Caleb through gritted teeth
Caleb: You think you have power over me?
scene direction: Buffy breaks free of his grip and kicks him, knocking him down to the floor.
Caleb: Stupid girl.
scene direction: Caleb stands
Caleb: You'll never stop me. You don't have the ba—
scene direction: While Caleb gets to his feet, Buffy twirls the scythe and swings it up between his legs. Caleb's eyes go wide.
Buffy: Who does nowadays?
scene direction: Caleb looks down incredulously at the scythe lodged in his body between his legs. Buffy swiftly pushes the scythe up through his body.
scene direction: Angel lying on the floor, regains consciousness and stands, angrily
Angel: OK, now I'm pissed. Where is he?
scene direction: Buffy looks to her right, then to her left, then at Angel
Buffy: He had to split.
scene direction: Buffy giggles devilishly
scene direction: First [Buffy] whispering to Spike, who's still watching Buffy from the shadows
First [Buffy]: Yeah, she needs you real bad.
scene direction: Angel picks up the folder again and brings it to Buffy.
Buffy: I'll have the guys go through that. See if there's anything new. Reliable source?
Angel: Not remotely.
Buffy: Mm, any port in an apocalypse.
Angel: I, uh, brought something else as well.
scene direction: Angel takes an amulet out of his pocket and holds it up for Buffy to see. It's a 2-inch diameter round crystal pendant in a silver starburst setting hung from a coarse silver chain.
scene direction: Buffy shakes her head
Buffy: I can already tell you, I have nothing that goes with that.
Angel: It's not for you.
Buffy: Splainy?
Angel: I don't know everything. It's very powerful and probably very dangerous. It has a purifying power, a cleansing power, possibly scrubbing bubbles. The translation is, uh—anyway, it bestows strength to the right person who wears it.
Buffy: And the right person is?
Angel: Someone ensouled, but stronger than human. A champion. As in me.
Buffy: Or me.
Angel: No. I don't know nearly enough about this to risk you wearing it. Besides, you got that real cool axe-thing going for you.
scene direction: Spike walks out the back without being noticed.
Buffy: So you're gonna be with me in this.
Angel: Shoulder to shoulder. I'm yours.
Buffy: No.
Angel: No, what?
Buffy: No. You're not gonna be in this fight.
scene direction: Buffy walks away
scene direction: Angel cuts her off
Angel: Why the hell not?
Buffy: 'Cause I can't risk you.
Angel: You need me in this.
Buffy: No, I need you gone.
Angel: Why?
Buffy: If I lose, if this thing gets past Sunnydale, then it's days—maybe hours—before the rest of the world goes. I need a second front, and I need you to run it.
Angel: OK...
scene direction: Angel crosses his arms
Angel: that's one reason. What's the other?
scene direction: Buffy walks out of the tomb
Buffy: There is no other.
scene direction: cut to 9 Ext. Pyramidal Tomb - Night
scene direction: Buffy walks out of the tomb. Angel follows her.
Angel: Is it Spike?
scene direction: Angel Buffy stops walking, turns to face Angel
Angel: You're not telling me something. And his scent, I remember it pretty well.
Buffy: You vampires. Did anybody ever tell you the whole smelling people thing's a little gross?
scene direction: Buffy walks away
scene direction: Angel follows
Angel: Is he your boyfriend?
Buffy: Is that your business?
Angel: You in love with him? OK, maybe I'm outta line, but this is kind of a curve ball for me. I mean, we are talking about Spike here.
Buffy: It's different. He's different. He has a soul now.
scene direction: Angel stops
Angel: Oh.
scene direction: Angel looks up
Angel: Well.
Buffy: What?
Angel: That's great.
scene direction: Angel mumbling to himself
Angel: Everyone's got a soul now.
Buffy: He'll make a difference.
scene direction: Angel mumbling
Angel: You know, I started it. The whole having a soul. Before it was all the cool new thing.
Buffy: Oh, my God. Are you 12?
Angel: I'm getting the brush off for Captain Peroxide. It doesn't necessarily bring out the champion in me.
Buffy: You're not getting the brush off. Are you just gonna come here and go all Dawson on me every time I have a boyfriend?
Angel: Aha!
scene direction: Angel points
Angel: Boyfriend!
Buffy: He's not. But...he is in my heart.
Angel: That'll end well.
scene direction: Angel walks away, leans on a tombstone
Buffy: What was the highlight of our relationship? When you broke up with me or when I killed you? I'm well aware of my stellar history with guys...
scene direction: Buffy sighs, leans beside Angel
Buffy: And, no, I don't see fat grandchildren in the offing with Spike, but I don't think that really matters right now.
scene direction: Buffy chuckles
Buffy: You know, in the midst of all this insanity, a couple things are actually starting to make sense. And the guy thing—
scene direction: Buffy sighs
Buffy: I always feared there was something wrong with me, you know, because I couldn't make it work. But maybe I'm not supposed to.
Angel: Because you're the slayer?
scene direction: Buffy looks at Angel
Buffy: Because—OK, I'm cookie dough. I'm not done baking. I'm not finished becoming whoever the hell it is I'm gonna turn out to be. I make it through this, and the next thing, and the next thing, and maybe one day I turn around and realize I'm ready. I'm cookies. And then, you know, if I want someone to eat—
scene direction: Buffy eyes go wide as she catches herself
Buffy: or enjoy warm, delicious cookie me, then...that's fine. That'll be then. When I'm done.
Angel: Any thoughts on who might enjoy—
scene direction: Angel sighs, irritated
Angel: Do I have to go with the cookie analogy?
Buffy: I'm not really thinking that far ahead. That's kind of the point.
scene direction: Angel hands the amulet to Buffy
Angel: I'll go start working on the second front. Make sure I don't have to use it.
scene direction: Angel walks away
scene direction: Buffy calls after him
Buffy: Angel.
scene direction: Buffy he turns to look at her
Buffy: I do... sometimes think that far ahead.
Angel: Sometimes is something.
scene direction: Angel smiles, walks away
Buffy: Be a long time coming. Years, if ever.
scene direction: Angel shrugs
Angel: I ain't getting any older.
scene direction: Angel walks away
scene direction: cut to 10 Int. Dining Room At Buffy'S House - Night
scene direction: Dawn is waiting by the front door when Buffy walks in. Buffy's surprised to see her. Dawn kicks Buffy in the shin.
Buffy: Ow.
Dawn: Dumbass.
scene direction: Buffy looks over at Xander, who's in the dining room with Anya, Giles, and Willow.
Xander: Don't look at me. This is a Summers' thing. It's all very violent.
scene direction: Buffy looks at Dawn
Buffy: If you get killed, I'm telling.
scene direction: Buffy walks into the dining room; Dawn follows
Willow: Did you find out anything about the scythe?
Buffy: It slices, dices, and makes julienne preacher.
Giles: Caleb?
Buffy: I cut him in half.
Willow: All right!
Anya: He had that coming.
Xander: Hey, party in my eye socket and everyone's invited.
scene direction: Xander everyone stares at Xander
Xander: Sometimes I shouldn't say words.
scene direction: cut to 11 Int. Basement At Buffy'S House - Night
scene direction: Spike is in the basement punching a punching bag when Buffy walks down the stairs.
Spike: So...where's tall, dark and forehead?
scene direction: Buffy rolls her eyes
Buffy: Let me guess. You can smell him.
Spike: Yeah, that and I also used my enhanced vampire eyeballs to watch you kissing him.
scene direction: Buffy awkwardly
Buffy: It was...a hello.
Spike: Most people don't use their tongues to say hello. Or I guess they do, but—
Buffy: There were no tongues. Besides, he's gone.
Spike: Oh, just popped by for a quickie, then?
scene direction: Buffy walks away
Buffy: Good, good. I haven't had quite enough jealous vampire crap for one night.
Spike: He wears lifts, you know.
scene direction: Buffy looks over at the punching bag that Spike was hitting and sees something has been taped to it - a sketch drawn in black marker on white paper, shows hair that sticks straight up, X's for eyes and fangs on the frowny face. Buffy rolls her eyes at the representation of Angel.
Buffy: You know, one of these days I'm just gonna put you 2 in a room and let you wrestle it out.
scene direction: Spike rifling through an empty cigarette package
Spike: No problem at this end.
scene direction: Spike throws the package away in disgust
scene direction: Buffy her eyes widen with excitement
Buffy: There could be oil of some kind involved.
scene direction: Spike walks up to Buffy
Spike: Where's the trinket?
Buffy: The who-ket?
Spike: The pretty necklace your sweetie-bear gave you. The one with all the power. I believe it's mine now.
Buffy: How do you figure?
Spike: Someone with a soul, but more than human? Angel meant to wear it, that means I'm the qualified party.
scene direction: Spike holds out his hands
Buffy: It's volatile. We don't know—
Spike: You'll be needing someone strong to bear it, then. You planning on giving it to Andrew?
scene direction: Buffy looks at the amulet, then at Spike
Buffy: Angel said the amulet was meant to be worn by a champion.
scene direction: Spike looks down, disappointed, but Buffy walks forward and hands it to him.
Spike: Been called a lot of things in my time.
scene direction: Buffy coyly
Buffy: Faith still has my room.
Spike: Well, you're not staying here. You can't buy me off with shiny beads and sweet talk. You got Angel breath. I'm not gonna just let you whack me back and forth like a rubber ball. I've got my pride, you know.
Buffy: I understand.
scene direction: Buffy turns to walk away
scene direction: Spike cuts her off
Spike: Clearly you don't, 'cause the whole "having my pride" thing was just a smokescreen.
scene direction: Buffy sighs with relief
Buffy: Oh, thank God.
Spike: I don't know what I would have done if you'd have gone up those stairs.
scene direction: Later, Buffy and Spike are lying together on the cot, fully clothed. Spike has his arm around Buffy and she fondles his hand. He rolls over, removing his arm from her, and she sits up. She stands and paces around the basement. She is looking out the window, staring at the night sky when FIRST [CALEB] appears.
First [Caleb]: Pretty, ain't it?
Buffy: You're not him.
First [Caleb]: No, you killed him right and proper. Terrible loss. This man was my good right arm. 'Course, it don't pain me too much. Don't need an arm. Got an army.
Buffy: An army of vampires. However will I fight—
First [Caleb]: Every day our numbers swell. But then you do have an army of your own. Some thirty-odd pimply-faced girls, don't know the pointy end of a stake.
scene direction: First [Caleb] feigns concern
First [Caleb]: Maybe I should call this off.
Buffy: Have you ever considered a cool name? I mean, since you're incorporeal and basically powerless. How about "The Taunter?" Strikes fear in the heart—
First [Caleb]: I will overrun this Earth. And when my army outnumbers the humans on this Earth, the scales will tip and I will be made flesh.
Buffy: Talk on. I'm not afraid of you.
scene direction: First [Caleb] rolls eyes
First [Caleb]: Then why aren't you asleep in your dead lover's arms?
scene direction: First [Caleb] looks over at Spike
First [Caleb]: 'Cause he can't help you. Nor Faith, nor your friends, certainly not your wanna-slay brigade. None of those girlies will ever know real power unless you're dead. You know the drill:
scene direction: First [Caleb] morphs into Buffy's form
First [Buffy]: Into every generation, a slayer is born. One girl in all the world. She alone will have the strength and skill to— There's that word again. What you are. How you'll die. Alone. Where's your snappy comeback?
Buffy: You're right.
First [Buffy]: Hmm. Not your best.
scene direction: Spike talking in his sleep
Spike: I'm drowning in footwear!
scene direction: Spike sits up with a start; Buffy turns to look at him and Buffy/First disappears
Spike: Weird dream.
scene direction: Spike notices Buffy standing in the middle of the room
Spike: Buffy? Is something wrong?
Buffy: No. Yeah. I just realized something. Something that really never occurred to me before. We're gonna win.
scene change: Fade to black.
scene change: *** ACT II ***
scene direction: cut to 12 Int. Buffy'S Room At Buffy'S House - Day
scene direction: Close-up of Dawn, Xander, Anya, and Willow staring incredulously at Buffy. Pan out to show that we were seeing their reflection in the mirror beside Buffy. Buffy's looking at all of them.
Buffy: What do you think?
Xander: That depends. Are you in any way...kidding?
Buffy: You don't think it's a good idea?
scene direction: Faith standing on the opposite side of the mirror from Buffy
Faith: It's pretty radical, B.
scene direction: Giles sitting by the window
Giles: It's a lot more than that.
scene direction: Giles stands
Giles: Buffy, what you said, it—it flies in the face of everything we've ever—every generation has ever done in the fight against evil.
scene direction: Giles smiles
Giles: I think it's bloody brilliant.
Buffy: You mean that?
Giles: If you want my opinion.
Buffy: I really do.
Willow: Whoa, hey. Not to poop on the party here, but I'm the guy that's gonna have to pull this thing off.
Faith: It is beaucoup d'mojo.
Willow: This goes beyond anything I've ever done. It's a total loss of control, and not in a nice, wholesome, my girlfriend has a pierced tongue kind of way.
scene direction: Dawn looks at Willow. Giles looks away.
Buffy: I wouldn't ask if I didn't think you could do it.
Willow: I—I'm not sure that I'm stable enough.
Giles: You can do this, Willow. We'll get the coven on the line, and we'll find out how they can help.
Dawn: Oh!
scene direction: Dawn nods
Dawn: "Pierced tongue."
scene direction: Buffy panicky
Buffy: Dawn needs to do a research thing.
scene direction: Giles quickly
Giles: Yes, you do.
scene direction: Dawn rolls her eyes
Dawn: It's cool.
scene direction: Dawn stands, walks out
Dawn: Watcher junior to the library.
Giles: I'll go dig up my sources. Quite literally, actually.
scene direction: Giles walks out of the room
scene direction: Anya to Xander
Anya: Come on, let's go assemble the cannon fodder.
Xander: That's not what we're calling them, sweetie.
scene direction: Xander walks out
scene direction: Anya walks out
Anya: Not to their faces. What, am I insensitive?
scene direction: Buffy hands the scythe over to Willow. Faith is standing beside Buffy.
scene direction: cut to 13 Int. Living Room At Buffy'S House - Day
scene direction: Buffy addresses a room full of potentials and her friends.
Buffy: I hate this. I hate being here. I hate that you have to be here. I hate that there's evil, and that I was chosen to fight it. I wish, a whole lot of the time, that I hadn't been. I know a lot of you wish I hadn't been either.
scene direction: Buffy Kennedy and Rona look away
Buffy: But this isn't about wishes. This is about choices. I believe we can beat this evil. Not when it comes, not when its army is ready, now. Tomorrow morning I'm opening the seal. I'm going down into the hellmouth, and I'm finishing this once and for all. Right now you're asking yourself, "what makes this different? What makes us anything more than a bunch of girls being picked off one by one?" It's true none of you have the power that Faith and I do. So here's the part where you make a choice.
scene direction: cut to 14 Int. Basement At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Faith and Robin Wood are moving furniture around.
Robin: It's one hell of a risky idea.
Faith: Buffy's wacky that way.
Robin: Yeah. There's one more vent right by the stairs. We block that, they got no sewer access, should drive them straight up into the school proper.
Faith: That's assuming they get past us.
Robin: Which, no offense, I am.
Faith: Come on, you gotta have a little Faith.
scene direction: Robin under his breath
Robin: I think I've had my share, thanks.
Faith: Well, I trundled right into that one, didn't I? Look, I'm sorry if it seemed like I was blowing you off the other day. I was just trying to, you know, blow you off.
Robin: Yeah, you know what, I figured that one out all by myself.
Faith: It's nothing personal. It's just after I get bouncy with a guy, there's not that much more I need
scene direction: to know about him.
Robin: That's bleak.
Faith: Way of the world.
Robin: That's good to know 'cause for a second there I thought it was more defensive, isolationist slayer crap.
scene direction: Faith laughs
Faith: And he comes out swinging.
Robin: Faith, there's a whole world out there that you don't even know about, and a lot of the men in it are pretty decent guys. They'd surprise you.
scene direction: Faith shrugs
Faith: Guy looks at me, let's just say his priorities shift.
Robin: Why, because you're so hot?
Faith: It's what it is, yo.
Robin: Oh, please. I am so much prettier than you are.
scene direction: Robin Faith seems taken aback
Robin: Oh, and, uh, for the record, our little encounter didn't exactly change my world.
Faith: You're tripping! That was rock 'em, sock 'em!
Robin: No, no, no, no. It was—it was—it was nice enough, you know, and you're—you're very, um... mm, enthused, and I think with a little more experience—
Faith: Dude, I got mad skills.
Robin: Yeah, of course. Let's finish up.
Faith: No, hell with that. We're going again, baby.
scene direction: Faith starts unbuckling her belt
Faith: You're gonna learn a little respect here, pal.
Robin: Faith—
scene direction: Robin chuckles
Robin: Make me a deal, all right? We live through this, you give me the chance to surprise you.
Faith: What would be the surprise?
scene direction: Robin looks at her
Robin: You do know the meaning of the word, right?
Faith: Fine.
scene direction: Faith rebuckles her belt
Faith: Deal.
Robin: Good enough.
Faith: No way you're prettier than me.
Robin: A little bit, yeah.
scene direction: cut to 15 Int. Willow'S Room At Buffy'S House - Night
scene direction: Willow's working intently at her desk while Kennedy stretches herself across the bed behind her, playing with Willow's hair.
Willow: I really wish she hadn't said that about me.
Kennedy: What, the thing Buffy said? I think it's true.
scene direction: Kennedy Willow squeaks with uncertainty
Kennedy: I'll be with you. To keep you grounded.
Willow: Yeah, well, you might have to keep me stab-ded, if I go to the bad place.
scene direction: Kennedy sits up, looks at Willow
Kennedy: You're saying I might have to kill you.
Willow: I am.
Kennedy: Bite me.
Willow: I will. I mean, I do... mean it. The darkest place I've ever been, this is what lies beyond that. This is too important for me to—
Kennedy: Buffy believes in you.
Willow: You know, Buffy: sweet girl, not that bright.
Kennedy: Hey, I'm the first one to call her out when she's not making sense. In fact, this may have escaped your keen notice, but I'm kind of a brat. I've always sort of gotten my way. So you're gonna make it through this, no matter how dark it gets. Because now... you're my way.
scene direction: They kiss.
scene direction: Willow back to her paperwork
Willow: I better go over this again.
scene direction: Kennedy cuddles on Willow while she works.
scene direction: cut to 16 Int. Dining Room At Buffy'S House - Night
scene direction: Giles and Xander are looking intently at a map that's laid out on the table.
Giles: I'm—I'm—I'm all turned around. You're here?
Xander: By the pillar, yeah. I'm protecting this area.
Giles: That puts me over by the door. Demons around the perimeter— Right! I open the door.
scene direction: Pan over to show Andrew is also at the table, but he's wearing a red hooded cloak.
scene direction: Andrew reading from a book
Andrew: You go through the door and are confronted by Trogdor the Burninator.
Giles: Oh, bugger it. Fight.
scene direction: Giles rolls dice, sips wine
Andrew: Adios to 5 hit points. Trogdor has badly wounded you.
Giles: Well, wait a minute. What about my...
scene direction: Giles puts on glasses
Giles: bag of illusions?
scene direction: Andrew scoffs
Andrew: Illusions against a Burninator? Silly, silly british man.
scene direction: Andrew Giles sips his wine again
Amanda: I invoke a time flux on Trogdor.
scene direction: Andrew looks at Amanda
Andrew: Step down, girlfriend, you can't just—
Amanda: Ninth level sorcerer, and I carry the emerald chalice. Trogdor is frozen in time. Deal with it.
scene direction: Amanda writes something down
Xander: Smackdown on Red Riding Hood. This could get ugly.
Giles: Could it possibly get uglier? I used to be a highly respected watcher, and now I'm a wounded dwarf with the mystical strength of a doily. I just wish I could sleep.
Amanda: What kind of person could sleep on a night like this?
scene direction: Xander looks over at Anya, who's passed out on the table in the chair beside him
Xander: Only the crazy ones
scene direction: Xander rubs Anya's hair as she snores
scene direction: cut to 17 Ext. Front Porch At Buffy'S House - Night
scene direction: Buffy's out on her front porch, alone, looking up at the night sky.
scene direction: cut to 18 Int. Basement At Buffy'S House - Night
scene direction: Spike holds out the amulet in front of him, letting it dangle from it's chain, and stares at it thoughtfully. Buffy walks down the stairs. Spike stands and faces her.
scene direction: cut to 19 Ext. Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Zoomed in on a the front of a yellow school bus, the camera pans up to show the campus beyond it. A car has been driven onto campus and crashed into a palm tree. Papers and boxes are strewn all over the grounds. Zoom in on the sign that reads "Sunnydale High School." Pan over quickly to show Principal Robin Wood leading Faith, Dawn, Giles, and the others into the school.
Robin: Welcome to Sunnydale High.
scene direction: cut to 20 Int. Hallway At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Robin leads the gang into the school as if instructing a class on a field trip.
Robin: There's no running in the halls, no yelling, no gum chewing. Apart from that, there's only one rule.
scene direction: Robin stops walking, turns to look at the crowd
Robin: If they move, kill them.
Buffy: OK, potentials, in the basement. Follow Faith and Spike.
scene direction: Faith and Spike leave; potentials follow.
Xander: If you have to go to the bathroom, it's to your left. If you don't have to go to the bathroom, picture what you're about to face. Better to go now.
Robin: Willow, my office is straight through there.
scene direction: Robin points
Buffy: It's right over the seal.
Kennedy: I'll start getting you set up.
scene direction: Kennedy takes the bag from Willow
Willow: Thanks.
Robin: OK, civilians. The vampires get upstairs, we have 3 areas they could get through to another building and then down into the sewers.
scene direction: Robin points
Robin: Down the hall in the atrium, the north hall here, and the primary target, through the lounge straight to the science building. Now odds are, most of them will head there.
Giles: Teams of 2 then. I suggest you and I take the lounge.
Robin: I concur.
Buffy: Xander, I want you with Dawn.
Xander: I concur.
Dawn: We'll check out the atrium.
Anya: So that leaves me and the dungeon master in the north hall?
Andrew: We will defend it with our very lives.
Anya: Yes, we will defend it with his very life.
Xander: And don't be afraid to use him as a human shield.
Anya: Good, yes, thanks.
scene direction: Anya nods
Andrew: I just want to say how proud I am to die for this very special cause with you guys.
scene direction: Andrew takes a paper out of his pocket, reads
Andrew: There's some, um—there's people I'd like to thank, both good and evil. Um, a shout out to my brother Tucker, who gave me the inspiration to summon demons and also—
Anya: Nobody cares, you little monkey.
scene direction: Anya they walk away
Dawn: I'm gonna check out our field of engagement.
scene direction: Dawn walks away
scene direction: Buffy goes after Dawn
Buffy: Dawn...
scene direction: Dawn turns to face her, resolutely
Dawn: No. Anything you say is gonna sound like good-bye.
scene direction: Dawn walks away
scene direction: Buffy walks to the group still standing in the hallway. It's only Willow, Xander and Giles now. Buffy joins them. They stare at each other in a heavy silence a moment before Buffy breaks the ice.
Buffy: So, what do you guys want to do tomorrow?
Willow: Nothing strenuous.
Xander: Well, mini-golf is always the first thing that comes to mind.
Giles: I think we can do better than that.
Buffy: I was thinking about shopping. As per usual.
Willow: Oh! There's an Arden B. in the new mall!
Xander: I could use a few items.
Giles: Well, now aren't we gonna discuss this? Save the world to go to the mall?
Buffy: I'm having a wicked shoe craving.
Xander: Aren't you on the patch?
Willow: Those never work.
Giles: Here I am, invisible to the eye...
scene direction: Xander, Willow, and Buffy walk down the hall together away from Giles.
Xander: See, I need a new look. It's this whole eye patch thing.
Buffy: Oh, you could go with full black secret agent look.
Willow: Or the puffy shirt, pirate slash—
scene direction: Giles turns
Giles: The earth is definitely doomed.
scene direction: Giles walks away
scene direction: Buffy, Xander and Willow are walking down the hall together in silence. When they pass the Principal's office, Willow steps in. Xander and Buffy continue walking. When they pass a corridor, Xander grabs Buffy's hand and squeezes it before walking away down the corridor. Buffy walks on down the hall by herself.
scene direction: cut to 21 Int. Basement At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Buffy joins Faith and the other potentials in the basement room where the Seal of Danzalthar is located. They form a circle around the edge of the seal. Buffy stands beside Faith.
Faith: You first, B.
scene direction: Faith hands Buffy a knife
scene direction: Buffy sighs and takes the knife from Faith and uses it to cut the palm of her hand so that it bleeds. She hands the knife to Faith. Moments later, after all the girls have cut their hands, they all hold their cut hands out over the seal, activating it. It opens and parts sink into the ground forming a staircase into the hellmouth. Buffy goes in first, followed by Faith.
scene direction: cut to 22 Int. Principal'S Office At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Willow is sitting on the floor of the Principal's office with a semi-circle of white candles lit in front of her. There are other candles in the room as well. Kennedy sits across from Willow, watching her.
Willow: They should be in place.
scene direction: Willow sits back with her hands on her knees
Willow: OK, magic time. You ready to, heh heh, kill me?
Kennedy: Starting to be.
Willow: Good. Fun. Great. Brace yourself.
scene direction: Kennedy whispering
Kennedy: Come on, red. Make it happen.
scene direction: cut to 23 Int. Hellmouth - Day
scene direction: Buffy, Spike, Faith and the other girls have climbed down through the seal into the hellmouth.
scene direction: Spike looking at the amulet worn around his neck
Spike: Not to be a buzzkill, love, but my fabulous accessory isn't exactly tingling with power.
scene direction: Buffy psyching herself up as she looks around slack-jawed
Buffy: I'm not worried.
Spike: I'm getting zero juice here, and I look like Elizabeth Taylor.
Faith: Cheer up, Liz. Willow's big spell doesn't work, it won't matter what you wear.
scene direction: Buffy, Faith, Spike and the others walk forward to the edge of a cliff where they can look out and see thousands upon thousands of Turok-Han below them on the floor of the hellmouth.
Buffy: I'm not worried.
scene direction: The Turok-Han are growling and making noise as they mob below them. Spike backs up.
Buffy: I'm not worried.
Rona: Really? 'Cause I'm flashing back to Xander's whole bathroom speech.
scene direction: Amanda frightened
Amanda: Buffy—
Buffy: I'm not worried...as long as Willow can work her spell before they—
scene direction: Buffy the Turok-Han look up at Buffy and gang
Buffy: see us.
scene direction: The snarling Turok-Han army rushes toward the cliff where Buffy and gang are positioned.
scene change: Fade to black.
scene change: *** ACT III ***
scene direction: cut to 24 Int. Hellmouth - Day
scene direction: As the Turok-Han army advances toward Buffy and gang, Buffy holds her ground.
scene direction: Buffy under her breath
Buffy: Willow...
scene direction: cut to 25 Int. Principal'S Office At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Willow is performing a spell while holding onto the scythe laid out in front of her. Suddenly, she's overcome with power. She looks up, as the scythe and Willow start to glow with a bright white light.
scene direction: Willow breathlessly
Willow: Oh...my...Goddess...
scene direction: cut to 26 Int. Living Room At Buffy'S House - Day
scene direction: FLASHBACK - Buffy is addressing a living room full of potentials and her friends.
Buffy: So here's the part where you make a choice: What if you could have that power...now? In every generation, one slayer is born... because a bunch of men who died thousands of years ago made up that rule. They were powerful men. This woman
scene direction: Buffy points to Willow
Buffy: is more powerful than all of them combined.
scene direction: Buffy Willow whimpers
Buffy: So I say we change the rule. I say my power...
scene direction: 26a INT. PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE AT SUNNYDALE HIGH - DAY
scene direction: Kennedy sits up smiling and confident.
Buffy V.O.: ...should be our power.
scene direction: 26b INT. HELLMOUTH - DAY
scene direction: Vi, Rona, Amanda close their eyes and breathe in with a start.
Buffy V.O.: Tomorrow, Willow will use the essence of the scythe to change our destiny.
scene direction: 26c MONTAGE
scene change: Cut to EXT. BASEBALL DIAMOND - DAY
scene direction: A young woman stands at the plate staring at the pitcher, waiting to bat. She looks a little nervous. BUFFY (V.O.)
scene direction: From now on, every girl in the world who might be a slayer...
scene change: Cut to INT. HIGH SCHOOL HALLWAY - DAY
scene direction: A young woman breathes heavily as she leans on her locker for support. will be a slayer.
scene change: Cut to INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
scene direction: A young woman is lying across the floor, having fallen out of her chair. Every girl who could have the power...
scene change: Cut to INT. DINING ROOM - DAY
scene direction: In a Japanese-style dining room, a young woman stands up at family dinner. will have the power... can stand up,
scene change: Cut to INT. BASEMENT - DAY
scene direction: A young woman grabs the wrist of a man who's trying to slap her face, preventing him. will stand up.
scene change: Cut to EXT. BASEBALL DIAMOND - DAY
scene direction: The girl at the plate changes from nervous to confident, smiling as she waits for the pitch. Slayers... every one of us. Make your choice. Are you ready to be strong?
scene direction: 26d INT. PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE AT SUNNYDALE HIGH - DAY
scene direction: The scythe is glowing white in Willow's hands.
scene direction: cut to 27 Int. Hellmouth - Day
scene direction: The Turok-Han rush toward Buffy and team as they stand on the cliff's edge waiting for battle.
scene direction: Vi confidently
Vi: These guys are dust.
scene direction: The Turok-Han army rushes Buffy's gang. Buffy fights them off with kicks and punches as usual, but the other potentials have super strength now as well. Vi jumps and kicks a Turok-Han down. Rona punches a Turok-Han in the face, knocking it down. Faith fights one off. Amanda stakes a Turok-Han through the heart. Vi beheads a Turok-Han.
scene direction: cut to 28 Int. Principal'S Office At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Kennedy, smiling at her newfound power, looks around and stops in amazement when she sees Willow.
Kennedy: Willow?
scene direction: Willow's hair is completely white, and she's still glowing with white light from the spell. Willow's facial expression is one of divine ecstasy as she looks heaven-ward. Willow pants as the power runs through her. When the scythe stops glowing, so does Willow. Willow's hair is back to normal, but she herself is still recovering from the incredible experience of that spell.
Kennedy: You...are a goddess.
scene direction: Willow smiles, weakly
Willow: And you're a slayer. Get this to Buffy.
scene direction: Willow hands the scythe to Kennedy, who takes it and runs out of the office. Willow sits there, panting, then collapses to her side, still smiling.
Willow: Ha! That was nifty.
scene direction: cut to 29 Int. Hellmouth - Day
scene direction: Buffy fights off the Turok-Han, who are starting to out number Buffy's gang. Faith and Spike and the others are still fighting them as well. Kennedy runs down into the hellmouth carrying the scythe.
Kennedy: Buffy! Catch!
scene direction: Kennedy throws the scythe to Buffy
scene direction: Buffy catches the scythe and is immediately able to kill the Turok-Han faster, than before, dusting them quickly. A Turok-Han attacks Kennedy, who is able to fend them off with ease now.
Kennedy: I could get used to this.
scene direction: The battle is going well for Buffy's gang as they are able to keep up with the endless number of Turok-Han that come for them. Vi goes after one of the with intensity we've never before seen in her. Buffy uses the scythe to behead a Turok-Han. As their numbers increase, some of the Turok-Han are able to get past Buffy's gang and go up through the hellmouth into the school.
scene direction: cut to 30 Int. Hallway At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Andrew and Anya are defending an exit together, each with a sword.
Andrew: I think they're coming.
scene direction: Andrew hides behind Anya
Anya: Oh, God. I'm terrified. I didn't think. I mean, I— I just figured you'd be terrified, and I would be sarcastic about it.
Andrew: Picture happy things... a lake, candy canes, bunnies.
scene direction: Anya gets angry
Anya: Bunnies! Floppy, hoppy...
scene direction: Anya holds up her sword, ready to attack
Anya: bunnies.
scene direction: cut to 31 Int. Hallway At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Giles and Robin are defending an exit together. The Turok-Han flood the hallways. They far outnumber Robin and Giles, who manage to hold their own. Giles slices one of the Turok-Han across the neck as Robin punches and kicks them.
scene direction: cut to 32 Int. Hallway At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Anya fights valiantly as the Turok-Han enter her corridor. Andrew backs away as a Turok-Han rushes him, snarling.
Andrew: I have swimmer's ear!
scene direction: The Turok-Han pushes Andrew against the wall. Anya dusts two Turok-Han in a row.
scene direction: cut to 33 Int. Hellmouth - Day
scene direction: Spike is fighting off Turok-Han alongside the others when he steps back and looks down at the amulet around his neck. He touches the amulet, but it burns his hand.
Spike: Buffy! Whatever this thing does, I think it's—
scene direction: Spike Spike winces and moans in pain
scene direction: Buffy to the girls
Buffy: Keep the line together! Drive them to the edge! We can't let them do—
scene direction: Buffy looks down to see that a Turok-Han has stabbed her with a sword from behind, piercing her abdomen. She stumbles forward and collapses to the ground, face-first.
scene change: Fade to black.
scene change: *** ACT IV ***
scene direction: cut to 34 Int. Hellmouth - Day
scene direction: Faith and the other girls are still fighting off the Turok-Han. Faith notices Buffy lying on the floor.
Faith: Buffy!
scene direction: Faith goes to Buffy's side
scene direction: Buffy leans up on her elbows, weakly
Buffy: Hold the line.
scene direction: Buffy hands the scythe to Faith
scene direction: Faith takes the scythe and goes back into the battle as Buffy stays in place on the floor, grunting in pain.
scene direction: cut to 35 Int. Hallway At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Xander and Dawn guard their exit as the Turok-Han make their way toward them. Dawn holds a sword, but stays cautiously away from the fight as Xander engages the demons full-on. Xander can hold them back, but not kill them, so Dawn pulls a rope, dropping a sandbag and opening a skylight window in the ceiling, flooding the room with sunlight and causing the Turok-Han to burn and dust in front of them.
scene direction: Xander to the piles of dust
Xander: We call that the greenhouse effect. Very dangerous—
scene direction: Another Turok-Han attacks Xander, knocking him down. Dawn goes to help fight it off.
scene direction: cut to 36 Int. Hallway At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Bringers have made their way to the fight and are attacking Andrew. Anya fights them off, but there are too many. While she stabs one with her sword, another slices diagonally though her torso from behind, killing her.
scene direction: cut to 37 Int. Hallway At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Bringers have found Giles and Robin as well. While they fight the Bringers, one stabs Robin in the stomach. Giles kills the Bringer that stabbed Robin, then catches Robin in his arm as he falls toward Giles.
scene direction: cut to 38 Int. Hellmouth - Day
scene direction: Spike continues fighting the Turok-Han, as do Faith and the others. A ground of Turok-Han attacks Faith, and she calls out.
Faith: Rona!
scene direction: Faith throws the scythe to Rona
scene direction: Rona uses the scythe to mow down a couple of Turok-Han. Buffy is still lying on the ground weak and wounded.
First [Buffy]: Oh no..
scene direction: First [Buffy] looks down at Buffy's wound reflected on its body
First [Buffy]: ow! Mommy, this mortal wound is all...itchy. You pulled a nice trick. You came pretty close to smacking me down. What more do you want?
scene direction: Buffy through gritted teeth
Buffy: I want you...
scene direction: Buffy sits up
Buffy: to get out of my face.
scene direction: Buffy stands
scene direction: Rona sees Buffy standing and throws the scythe to Buffy. Buffy catches it and swings it with a mighty force, knocking three Turok-Han off the cliff at once. Faith find renewed strength and kicks her assailants off of her as well. Faith takes out a few Turok-Han, as does another slayer. Vi takes out one after another after another. Kennedy disarms one and dusts another. Buffy knocks one off the cliff and kills one with the scythe. Spike gasps and stumbles backward away from the fight as he clutches his chest, then his burned hand.
Spike: Oh, bollocks.
scene direction: A bright blue light shoots up from the amulet, knocking a hole in the ceiling, going up through the floor of the Principal's office past Willow and through to the open sky. The light turns a warm orange color.
Spike: Buffy!
Buffy: Spike!
scene direction: Before Buffy can go to his side, the amulet refracts the orange light out into the hellmouth like rays of sunshine—but with concentrated intensity like a laser. Buffy stares at Spike. As the amulet works its magic, the Turok-Han are dusting throughout the hellmouth. The ground starts shaking. Faith calls out to the others.
Faith: Everybody out, now!
scene direction: Everyone rushes to the stairs that lead up to the seal. Buffy runs to Spike's side.
scene direction: Spike amazed
Spike: I can feel it, Buffy.
Buffy: What?
scene direction: Spike looks at her
Spike: My soul. It's really there. Kind of stings.
scene direction: cut to 39 Int. Hallway At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: The girls rush out of the basement up to the hallway. They go past Andrew. A Bringer is hovering over Andrew, but it falls back revealing Andrew's sword in its chest.
scene direction: Andrew in shock
Andrew: What... why?
scene direction: One of the girls helps Andrew to his feet.
scene direction: cut to 40 Ext. Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Giles is helping the wounded Robin walk. As the ground starts to shake even more, they see the school bus sitting out front.
Robin: The bus. Get them on the bus.
scene direction: Giles lets go of Robin, and yells after the girls who are coming out of the building
Giles: Everybody, this way!
scene direction: cut to 41 Int. Hallway At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Kennedy helps the weakened Willow walk. Xander and Dawn are making their way out of the building as well. As the building falls down around them, Xander screams out for Anya.
Xander: Anya! Anya!
scene direction: He doesn't see her body lying limp and lifeless on the floor beneath some rubble. Dawn pulls him away toward the exit.
scene direction: cut to 42 Int. Hellmouth - Day
scene direction: Buffy and Spike are the only ones left in the hellmouth. Spike is still glowing from the amulet, sending rays of light out into the hellmouth. Buffy stands in front of him, staring, still holding her scythe.
Spike: Go on, then.
Buffy: No. No, you've done enough. You could still—
Spike: No, you've beat them back. It's for me to do the cleanup.
scene direction: The walls are crumbling around them.
scene direction: Faith calls down to Buffy
Faith: Buffy, come on!
Spike: Gotta move, lamb. I think it's fair to say school's out for bloody summer.
scene direction: Buffy worried
Buffy: Spike!
Spike: I mean it! I gotta do this.
scene direction: Spike holds out his hand to stop her
scene direction: Buffy laces her fingers through Spike's, and they burst into flame together.
scene direction: Buffy softly, looks into his eyes
Buffy: I love you.
Spike: No, you don't. But thanks for saying it.
scene direction: Spike another earthquake; Buffy lets go of his hand
Spike: Now go!
scene direction: Spike Buffy runs up the stairs
Spike: I wanna see how it ends.
scene direction: cut to 43 Ext. Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: The school building explodes. Faith runs out from the cloud of smoke and jumps into the bus. The bus drives off with all the survivors, except Spike and Buffy. Dawn stares ut the back window of the bus.
scene direction: cut to 44 Int. Hallway At Sunnydale High - Day
scene direction: Buffy runs through the hallway, still carrying the scythe, avoiding the debris that has fallen to the floor as well as what's still falling as the ground continues to shake. The door is blocked, so Buffy goes upstairs.
scene direction: cut to 45 Int. Hellmouth - Day
scene direction: Spike stands in the crumbling hellmouth with light shining down on him from above, grinning from ear to ear and laughing as he burns up from the sunlight. He dusts slowly—first his skin singes, then his muscles, then his bones—then he's gone. The hellmouth crumbles in around him.
scene direction: cut to 46 Int. School Bus - Day
scene direction: Those who are less injured tend to the badly injured survivors on the bus. Vi tends to Rona. Xander takes care of an Asian girl.
scene direction: Vi grabs Rona's face
Vi: Look at me! This is nothing! Stay awake! This is nothing!
scene direction: Andrew staring straight ahead, in shock
Andrew: Why didn't I die?
scene direction: Dawn looks out the back window of the bus, searching.
scene direction: Buffy is running along the rooftops of the shopping mall as the bus drives down the street. The buildings are collapsing behind her as she tries to catch up to the bus. She leaps from building to building, still carrying the scythe, then finally jumps toward the street, landing on the bus.
scene direction: Widen the shot vertically to show that the whole town is collapsing in on itself, being sucked back into the Earth.
scene direction: Faith looks out the window
Faith: Ease off. We're clear.
scene direction: The bus screeches to a halt with Buffy still clinging to the top. Principal Wood, who was driving even though he was wounded, turns the ignition off, leans back in his chair and sighs.
scene direction: cut to 47 Ext. School Bus - Day
scene direction: Buffy jumps down off the top of the school bus and looks around. Dawn opens the emergency exit door at the back of the bus and jumps down to give Buffy a warm hug.
scene direction: Giles looking around down the street behind them
Giles: I don't understand. Who did this?
Buffy: Spike.
scene direction: As everyone who's able to gets off the bus, Buffy walks away from the bus a few feet toward Sunnydale, which is now a vast cavern. The "Welcome to Sunnydale" sign still stands, perched precariously on the edge of the canyon. The sign teeters a little before falling backwards into the pit that used to be its city.
scene direction: Xander walks up to Andrew as he gets off the bus
Xander: So, did you see?
scene direction: Andrew can't look at Xander
Andrew: I—I was scared. I'm sorry.
Xander: Did you see what happened? I mean, was she...
scene direction: Andrew looks at Xander
Andrew: She was incredible. She died saving my life.
scene direction: Xander puts his hand on Andrew's shoulder, nods
Xander: That's my girl. Always doing the stupid thing.
scene direction: Andrew smiles a little. Xander walks away toward Buffy.
scene direction: cut to 48 Int. School Bus - Day
scene direction: Faith walks up to Robin Wood, who's slumped over in the driver's seat.
Faith: It's not bad. You just sit here. I'll get someone to—
Robin: Hey... did we— did we make it?
scene direction: Faith kneels to be on eye-level with Robin
Faith: We made it. We won.
scene direction: Robin smiles and tries to laugh, but he's very weak. Still looking at Faith, he goes silent and stops breathing. Faith gets concerned, pauses, then reaches toward his face to close his eyelids. Robin coughs and sputters a moment, then smiles weakly at her.
scene direction: Robin breathing heavily
Robin: Surprise.
scene direction: Faith lets out a sigh of relief and a smile. Vi goes to Robin's side, and Faith steps off the bus to join the others.
scene direction: cut to 49 Ext. School Bus - Day
scene direction: Buffy is still staring at the canyon that once was Sunnydale. Dawn stands beside her, then Giles joins them, as do Xander, Willow, and Faith.
Faith: Looks like the hellmouth is officially closed for business.
Giles: There is another one in Cleveland. Not to spoil the moment.
scene direction: Giles bends to pick up a rock and throws it into the canyon
Xander: We saved the world.
Willow: We changed the world.
scene direction: Willow walks up to Buffy's side
Willow: I can feel them, Buffy. All over. Slayers are awakening everywhere.
Dawn: We'll have to find them.
Willow: We will.
scene direction: Giles paces behind them
Giles: Yes, because the mall was actually in Sunnydale, so there's no hope of going there tomorrow.
Dawn: We destroyed the mall? I fought on the wrong side.
Xander: All those shops gone. The Gap, Starbucks, Toys "R" Us. Who will remember all those landmarks unless we tell the world about them?
Giles: We have a lot of work ahead of us.
scene direction: Faith to Willow
Faith: Can I push him in?
Willow: You've got my vote.
Faith: I just want to sleep, yo, for like a week.
Dawn: I guess we all could, if we wanted to.
Willow: Yeah.
scene direction: Willow smiles
Willow: The First is scrunched, so... what do you think we should do, Buffy?
Faith: Yeah, you're not the one and only chosen anymore. Just gotta live like a person. How's that feel?
Dawn: Yeah, Buffy. What are we gonna do now?
scene direction: As the others chatter around her, Buffy just stares straight ahead at the hole formerly known as Sunnydale. As she contemplates what's next, she smiles.
scene direction: Closing credits.